Britney Spears just wanted some pasta. A  report from TMZ — complete with video — alleged over the weekend that Spears had a meltdown Friday at a Woodland Hills restaurant and that her husband, Sam Asghari, had stormed out and was “visibly upset.” However, an employee at the restaurant refuted that story  and reportedly said  another patron was to blame. “The disruptor wasn’t Britney — it was the diner who taunted her by taking a video without consent,” the staffer told Page Six in a story published Wednesday. The employee said Spears “was understandably upset” and clarified that Asghari didn’t storm out but had only left to get their car. The TMZ report included video from a patron that showed the pop singer sitting at a table and talking as a waiter stood by. Spears eventually takes notice of the camera-wielding patron, then raises a menu to shield her face from the recording. The report cited eyewitnesses who claimed to hear Spears “yelling and talking gibberish.” They described her as “manic.” Spears laughed off the report in a video shared on Asghari’s Instagram account Tuesday evening.  “The best thing about the TMZ video, to me personally — I’m starving — was the pasta,” Spears says in the Instagram story, referring to the plate of food seen at the start of Friday’s video. Spears, using a cat filter, jokes about jumping “from one table to the next” to eat the patron’s pasta. GIFs of a cat and a plate of spaghetti and meatballs were pasted in over the clip. “Wouldn’t that be hot?” the “Hold Me Closer” singer quips as Asghari, also with a cat filter, laughs and adds, “Like a cat.” “Yeah, I got what I wanted,” Spears says as Asghari meows. On Saturday, the day after the restaurant incident, Asghari posted a defense against the meltdown report on his Instagram stories. “Don’t believe what you read online people,” he wrote. Spears and Asghari tied the knot in a star-studded ceremony last June after dating for years. In 2021, a judge ended her 14-year conservatorship, restoring her rights to sign her own documents and handle her own finances.