The latest atmospheric river storm began moving into an already-saturated and weather-weary  California early Friday, again raising flooding concerns across the San Francisco Bay Area and Central Coast, especially along Monterey County’s Salinas River. The Salinas River near Chualar already breached some levees, and by Friday morning many low-lying fields and farmland were filled with murky floodwaters. Forecasters predict that the area could see the worst of the flooding late Friday, when the river is expected to crest almost 2 feet above flood stage. Officials are concerned that the water could rise over some crucial roadways, possibly stranding the Monterey Peninsula. “These storms continue to be dangerous and dynamic, and post a threat to communities throughout the state of California,” California Office of Emergency Services Director Nancy Ward said Friday. “We are not out of the woods yet. The threat to communities remains, and waters will continue to rise even after these storms have passed.” After a statewide average of 9 inches of rain over the last 18 days, National Weather Service meteorologist David Lawrence said that most of California is beyond saturated, ripe for more or new flooding, mud and landslides, coastal erosion and downed trees. While Friday’s system brought some bands of rain, Lawrence warned heavier rains, strong winds and more snow for the mountains are expected Saturday. Just outside Chualar, Eddie Gonzalez was assessing the flood damage the Salinas River had done to his parents’ property Friday afternoon. Wearing knee-high rubber boots, he walked gingerly through the thick mud that blanketed the driveway, yard and fields behind the house.  “Watch yourself. That’s all raw sewage,” he said, pointing to the ground. He said the river had washed away four sewage ponds just upriver. All the water sitting in the fields behind his parents’ home of 43 years — the house he grew up in — and the muck on the driveway was from sewage. He said the same thing happened in 1995 — although that time, the water got into the house. This time, it came up to the fence, but only trickled in through a space below the back gate. “This is bad, but not nearly as bad as that flood,” he said. As the sun came out, Gonzalez noted the water surrounding his family’s home already started to go down compared with late Thursday. In the small town of Chualar, people seemed unaffected by the flooded fields around them. At Alma’s Bakery and Deli, a cashier — who declined to give her name — said the Chualar’s small village was elevated enough to keep her store safe.  Outside the front door, two boot scrubbers were situated just off to the side — allowing for customers to clean caked mud off their boots before entering. County officials and forecasters began warning Thursday that severe flooding from the Salinas River could overrun Highways 1 and 68, which would effectively cut off the Monterey Peninsula from the rest of the Bay Area.  But updated forecasts Friday morning predicted that flooding should remain less severe — making that possibility less likely. Flooding was no longer expected to reach the National Weather Service’s moderate stage, as had been predicted Thursday. “It doesn’t look like [the flow from upstream]  was quite as strong as anticipated,” said Colby Goatley, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Monterey. The river level  forecasts incorporate expected rainfall and upstream flow, the latter of which appeared weaker early Friday, he said. The Salinas River at the town of Spreckels rose above flood stage — beginning at 23 feet — Thursday evening, reaching 24.5 feet by 8 a.m. Friday, according to the National Weather Service. The river is expected to peak just under 25 feet by late Friday, remaining in flood stage through  Sunday, according to the latest projections from the California Nevada River Forecast Center.   “It’s a lot of unknowns,” said Nicholas Pasculli, spokesperson for Monterey County. “I hate to have to say that, but it requires constant monitoring.”  Despite flooding affecting some roadways, Highways 1 and 68 were open as of Friday afternoon, Pasculli said. The flooding could also be compounded this weekend by the heavy rain and high winds, he said, or tides from the Pacific Ocean could also impact the behavior of the river. “We just all need to have situational awareness regarding the river,” Pasculli said. “The water’s gonna do what the water’s gonna do.” Irene Merrill, 69, who has lived in Salinas for more than 55 years, drove out Friday to take a look at the Salinas River. Old Hilltown, which runs parallel to Highway 68, was under several feet of water by Friday afternoon. “It’s climbing towards Highway 68,” she said. “Caltrans has vehicles stationed there right now. Once that water starts to top, they’re gonna shut down 68 instantly.”  Merrill was in high school with the Salinas River flooded in 1969 and isolated the Monterey Peninsula. Students who lived off the Highway 68 corridor couldn’t go to school for nearly a week, she said. “The Salinas River is normally pretty lazy and quiet, but when it floods, it causes tremendous destruction,” she added. If Highway 68 and Highway 1 are closed due to flooding and the Monterey Peninsula is sequestered from the rest of the state, Merrill said she’s mostly concerned because most of the major services for the county are located in Salinas.  “Salinas is the county seat and all the county administrative offices are here,” she said. “The people who work in county offices who live in the Peninsula can’t get to work. We have two major hospitals here. A lot of those staffers, whether they be medical or maintenance or facility, they live on the Peninsula.” Already, an industrial wastewater treatment facility located on South Davis Road in Salinas was closed Friday and likely through early next week because the facility has been compromised by flooding river water, according to Sophia Rome, a spokesperson for the city of Salinas.  The treatment facility processes industrial wastewater from agricultural businesses and doesn’t deal with raw sewage, Rome said, but the disruption affects about a dozen or so agricultural and other industrial dischargers.   Friday’s storm marks the eighth atmospheric-river-fueled event in the state since Christmas, dumping heavy rains across the state in a relentless series of storms. “The full weight of the federal and state government has been rapidly deployed to try to protect our impacted communities,” Ward said, joined at the Friday press conference by the director of FEMA, days after President Biden approved an emergency declaration for California’s storms.  Ward said official had positioned resources and crews across the state for continued storm response and recovery, including the California National Guard in Santa Barbara. Flood watches remain in effect along the Navarro and Russian rivers in Mendocino County, though most of those areas aren’t expected to reach flood stage until the weekend. But near the town of Hopland, flooding could begin by Friday afternoon, with concerns escalating there on Saturday, especially at the Highway 175 bridge that crosses the Russian River. A flood advisory is in effect through Friday for parts of Sonoma County, where urban and small stream flooding is expected among tributaries feeding into the Russian River.  In addition to the Salinas, Russian and Navarro Rivers, the state is monitoring at least three other locations expected to exceed flood stage over the next few days, according to Department of Water Resources officials, including the Sacramento River and the San Joaquin River area. A high surf warning is in effect for much of the Bay Area coast, with waves up to 25 feet expected and warnings of localized beach erosion and “farther than normal wave run-up.” The Monterey County Sheriff’s Office on Friday morning issued an evacuation warning for the coastal areas of Moss Landing and Monterey Dunes. Residents along Monterey Bay in areas south of Sandholdt Road, north of the southernmost point of Monterey Dunes Way and west of Highway 1 to the Pacific Ocean, were told to “prepare to leave.” Carmel-by-the-Sea and portions of Carmel Valley, as well as areas near the Big Sur River, are also under an evacuation warning.    Monterey County has opened six evacuation shelters operated by the Red Cross. More information can be found on the Red Cross website.  In Southern California, the bulk of the storm isn’t expected to hit until Saturday, with rains forecast across the region, as well as “minor roadway ponding” and “moderate to brief heavy rain, leading to minor urban and small creek flooding,” according to the National Weather Service.