Another menacing storm front moved through Southern California early Thursday, bringing rain, flash flood concerns, strong winds and dangerous surf as the region was still reeling from a moisture-rich atmospheric river that pounded the entire state in recent days. The cold front and heaviest rainfall moved through the Los Angeles area faster and earlier than expected and produced less rain, sprinkling about 1 to 2 inches at lower elevations and 2 to 5 inches at higher elevations, meteorologists with the National Weather Service in Oxnard said. But the region remained at risk of isolated thunderstorms and flooding through Thursday because of a cold air mass traveling in  the front’s wake, meteorologists said. A flood watch issued Wednesday across southwest California was canceled by noon Thursday, after the strongest part of the storm had moved out of Los Angeles County. The flood watch was canceled for San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Ventura and Los Angeles counties, according to the National Weather Service. A winter storm warning was issued for the mountains of Los Angeles and Ventura counties through 10 p.m Thursday, with up to a foot of new snow expected at some of the highest regions, with gusts of wind reaching 55 mph. High surf advisories and warnings are also in effect for much of the central and southwestern coasts of Southern California through Friday, with waves potentially reaching up to 22 feet in some areas. Malibu and Zuma beaches had reports of some coastal flooding early Thursday. Meteorologists expect significant beach erosion, particularly at high tide. Los Angeles County is offering sandbag pickup at a number of locations.  “Here in Southern California, it is certainly one of our strongest systems,” said Ariel Cohen, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. The Fish and Bobcat fires burn scar areas near Duarte, and the Route fire burn scar areas near Castaic Lake, could still face mud and debris flows, forecasters said. The Lake fire burn scar around Lake Hughes, north of the Santa Clarita Valley, was also of concern.  The concern for mudslides and debris flow led Los Angeles County officials to warn residents near the Lake fire burn scar and north end of the Bobcat fire burn scar in and around the Angeles National Forest to be ready for possible evacuations through Friday morning. The Sepulveda Basin was shut down early Thursday due to high water levels, and multiple streets were flooded in Los Angeles, according to the Los Angeles Police Department. Though the rainfall totals were below expected amounts, “accidents and traffic collision are everywhere” around Los Angeles, said Officer Moises Marroquin, of the California Highway Patrol. He said roadway flooding was pervasive. The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department Lost Hills Station said in a tweet that downed trees and small rock slides were reported across the area and advised residents to stay home. Beverly Hills also had reports of large fallen trees. In the less than 48 hours since the  latest storm moved in, downtown Los Angeles received about .67 inches of rain, while Beverly Hills came in at 1.8 inches. About 2.96 inches of rain fell on Woodland Hills in the San Fernando Valley, and Newhall in the Santa Clarita Valley recorded about 1.69 inches. Rainfall totals at higher elevations exceeded 3.5 inches in some areas, including the Lechuza fire station in the Santa Monica Mountains.  Eagle Rock Reservoir recorded 1.11 inches, and Pasadena reached just 1 inch. “These totals can go up, and probably will go up,” Kristan Lund, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service said.  Thursday’s storm came on the heels of a series of storms — what experts describe as an atmospheric river — that had lashed California, prompting Gov. Gavin Newsom to proclaim a statewide emergency on Wednesday to “support response and recovery efforts” across the state. In Northern California, where the storm has been most severe, pounding rain and strong winds Wednesday left a toddler dead, triggered evacuations and power outages, and heightened fears of widespread flooding and debris flows. Though the storm was still significant in Southern California, the region has been spared the worst.  Southern California has been “more on ... the southern periphery of the system,” Cohen said. Officials in Santa Barbara County on Wednesday ordered the evacuation of  areas previously scorched by the Thomas, Cave and Alisal fires, citing the risk of flooding and debris flows. By Thursday morning, Santa Barbara officials lifted the evacuation order after the National Weather Service said the heaviest rains and the strongest winds associated with the storm had passed.  “Although showers and short-duration thunderstorms may produce short, heavy downpours, rainfall is not predicted to reach critical levels to cause flooding or debris flows,” the county’s Office of Emergency Service Management said in a message to residents. Caltrans District 5, which includes Santa Barbara County, reported a full closure of Highway 154 between  Highway  246   and Highway 192 because of multiple rock and mudslides, the agency said in a tweet Thursday morning. Light showers moved into Orange, San Bernardino and Riverside counties around 7 a.m., according to the National Weather Service in San Diego .  But the storm  had already caused disruptions. In Orange County, flooding closed down Pacific Coast Highway between Warner Avenue and Seapoint Street, Caltrans  District 12, which oversees Orange County, said in a tweet. Meteorologists received reports of downed trees in Burbank and warned of coastal flooding and erosion in other areas. The storm also hit parts of San Luis Obispo County, where nearly 3,000 residents were without power early Thursday morning, according to PowerOutage.Us. Forecasters warn there’s more to come. “We have a parade of storm systems headed into the area over the next week,” Cohen said. Times staff writer Grace Toohey contributed to this report.