House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy of Bakersfield told reporters on Friday that he has the votes to be elected speaker, promising an end to a historic stalemate that has paralyzed Congress all week. As members were approving a Friday afternoon motion to adjourn until 10 p.m., McCarthy told CNN’s Manu Raju that he had counted, and knew he had the votes to win on the next ballot. McCarthy had flipped 15 votes his way on Friday —  nearly  enough  to clinch the speaker’s gavel on the 13th ballot. The pause in the action will allow a pair of McCarthy supporters who missed the 12th and 13th votes —  Ken Buck (R-Colo.) and Wesley Hunt (R-Texas) — to return to the Capitol, increasing McCarthy’s vote total from 214 to 216. The House has 435 seats, with one  currently vacant. If every member votes, McCarthy must win 218 votes to secure a majority and the speakership. Friday’s  break gives McCarthy and his allies more time to flip two of the remaining six Republican holdouts and hit that magic number. McCarthy’s vote total had fallen as low as 200 on Thursday. But Republicans began to move in his direction Friday afternoon, and each flip was met with raucous applause from the GOP side of the aisle. Many members who switched their vote to McCarthy said that their decisions were contingent upon a deal to reform House rules. The deal is expected to empower a far-right faction of House Republicans by granting them seats on the all-important Rules Committee and other concessions.  “Pending transformational rules changes to empower the rank and file: McCarthy,”  Josh Brecheen (R-Okla.) said during his first vote for the GOP leader. On the two-year anniversary of the Capitol insurrection, the GOP-controlled House remained far from under control. Only four other Congresses have required more roll call votes for speaker before a winner emerged. And four days after the 118th Congress convened Tuesday, the House has neither a speaker nor any sworn-in members.  There are no committee chairs to launch investigations or hold hearings.  No rules  can be adopted and no legislation  can pass. Would-be members have lost access to national security intelligence, and an increasing number of them have begun publicly complaining about their offices’ inability to help constituents with issues. But for the first time all  week, Republicans made significant progress toward settling their differences. It remains unclear, though, whether any of the six remaining holdouts will  risk putting McCarthy over the top. Five conservative Republicans have positioned themselves for months as a hard “no.” Some in the group sent fundraising emails this week highlighting their opposition to McCarthy. Until Friday, Democratic leader Hakeem Jeffries of New York had led every ballot with 212 votes, a show of unity among House Democrats. On the 12th ballot, McCarthy finally surpassed Jeffries, notching 213 to Jeffries’ 211.  McCarthy maintained a lead on the 13th ballot. But until he  — or another Republican — can clinch a clear majority, the House will remain in a state of paralysis, continuing its historic streak of votes for speaker. “You only earn the position of speaker of the House if you can get the votes,” Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), one of the  far-right conservatives who have vowed to  never vote for McCarthy, said on the floor. “Mr. McCarthy doesn’t have the votes today. He will not have the votes tomorrow, and he will not have them next week, next month, next year. And so one must wonder, madam clerk, is this an exercise in vanity for someone who has done the math, taken the counts and is putting this institution through something that absolutely is avoidable?” Democrats applauded some of Gaetz’s remarks, but many Republicans began to file out of the chamber in what appeared to be a clear rejection of his rhetoric. Besides Brecheen, Republicans who had switched their votes to McCarthy as of Friday afternoon were Dan Bishop of North Carolina; Michael Cloud, Chip Roy and Keith Self of Texas; Andrew Clyde of Georgia; Byron Donalds and Anna Paulina Luna, Florida; Mary Miller, Illinois; Ralph Norman, South Carolina; Scott Perry, Pennsylvania; Victoria Spartz, Indiana; Paul Gosar, Arizona; Andy Ogles, Tennessee; and Andy Harris, Maryland.  