Stepping away from the brink of cancellation after two years of tumult, the rebooted Golden Globes ceremony  returns to the small screen Tuesday night. The show was pushed out of the mainstream awards cycle last year after a Los Angeles Times investigation uncovered questionable self-dealing, ethical lapses and a lack of diversity among members of its parent organization, the Hollywood Foreign Press Assn.  The 80th Golden Globe Awards — which honors projects across film and television  and typically kicks off the awards season — will air at 5 p.m. Pacific Tuesday on NBC and will be streamed on the network’s premium Peacock service. The show will take place at its usual haunt, the Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills. In September, NBC and the HFPA announced the Globes’ return to its longtime broadcast television home in time for the awards show’s 80th anniversary.   NBC dropped the 2022 Globes broadcast  after a contingent of powerful publicists boycotted the organization and some studios — including Netflix and WarnerMedia — cut ties after The Times’ investigation. The 2022 ceremony ended up being a “private event” without any celebrities, nominees or even a livestream, and the winners were announced via social media. NBC, which previously had a multiyear agreement with the HFPA to air the Golden Globes, agreed to only a one-year deal, in part to ensure that the organization remains committed to the reforms it has undertaken. (In August, after amending its bylaws, the association added 103 international, nonmember voters to its ranks, both expanding and diversifying the organization’s composition.) Additionally, the previously nonprofit international journalists’ group in July announced plans to transform into a for-profit venture under billionaire owner Todd Boehly, chairman of private equity firm Eldridge Industries, the parent company of longtime Golden Globes producer Dick Clark Productions.   The ceremony — previously billed as the party of the year — will be hosted for the first time by Emmy Award-winning comedian Jerrod Carmichael, who follows in the footsteps of longtime co-hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler and repeat host Ricky Gervais. But Carmichael has remained mum on his plans as emcee. Appearing recently on NBC’s “Tonight Show,” Carmichael took aim at the network as well as the awards show, and said it was his idea — along with NBC’s “lazy and pushy” marketing team — to brand the ceremony as an “evening of joy and devastation.”   Announcing the nominees last month, the HFPA recognized the films “The Banshees of Inisherin” and “Everything Everywhere All at Once” and TV series “Abbott Elementary” and “The White Lotus,” among others. Below are the projects that have been tapped in the major categories, taken from the complete list of 2023 nominees:  Best motion picture — drama Best motion picture — musical or comedy Television series — drama Television series — musical or comedy  Given Hollywood’s aloof response to the nominations, it’s almost surprising how many stars have agreed to come out for the glittery affair. The HFPA has announced a substantial list of presenters, many of whom are nominated, ramping up the star power for the telecast. Meanwhile, actor and comedian Eddie Murphy will be given the 2023 Cecil B. DeMille Award for outstanding contributions to the world of entertainment and producer Ryan Murphy will receive the Carol Burnett Award honoring outstanding achievement in television. Pianist Chloe Flower is set to perform. Here are the presenters who have been announced (so far): Times staff writers Stacy Perman and Josh Rottenberg contributed to this report.