The Federal Aviation Administration is lifting a grounding order  on flights across the U.S. following a computer outage that resulted in thousands of delays quickly cascading through the system at airports nationwide Wednesday. The FAA had ordered all departing flights grounded early Wednesday morning but lifted that order just before 6  a.m.  Pacific time after several hours. Nearly 5,000 flights had been delayed by   about 7 a.m.  Pacific time — more than for all of the previous day, according to the flight tracking website FlightAware.  Almost 900 were canceled. The FAA said it was continuing to look into the cause of the initial problem. The groundings affected almost all aircraft, including shipping and passenger flights. Most delays were concentrated along the East Coast, but on social media, travelers reported delayed or grounded flights at airports around the country, including LAX. More than 21,000 flights were scheduled to take off in the U.S. on Wednesday, mostly domestic trips, and about 1,840 international flights were scheduled to fly to the U.S., according to aviation data firm Cirium. Some medical flights can get clearance, and the outage is not affecting military operations. Although the White House initially said there was no evidence of a cyberattack, President Biden directed the Department of Transportation to investigate the cause of the disruption.  Before leaving the White House to accompany his wife to a medical procedure, Biden said he had been briefed by Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, who told him that officials still had not identified what went wrong. “I just spoke to Buttigieg. They don’t know what the cause is. But I was on the phone with him about 10 minutes,” Biden said. “I told him to report directly to me when they find out. Air traffic can still land safely, just not take off right now. We don’t know what the cause of it is.” The FAA said it was working on restoring its Notice to Air Missions system, or NOTAM. “We are performing final validation checks and reloading the system now,” the FAA said. “Operations across the National Airspace System are affected.” The agency said that some functions were beginning to come back on line, but that “National Airspace System operations remain limited.”  United Airlines said it had temporarily delayed all domestic flights and would issue an update once it learned more from the FAA. American Airlines said that it was closely monitoring the situation. Before commencing a flight, pilots are required to consult NOTAMs, or Notices to Air Missions, which list potential adverse effects on flights, such as runway construction and the potential for icing. The system used to be telephone-based, with pilots calling dedicated flight service stations for the information, but has now moved online.  Breakdowns appear to be rare. “I don’t ever remember the NOTAM system going down like this. I’ve been flying 53 years,” said John Cox, a former airline pilot and now an aviation-safety consultant. According to FAA advisories, the NOTAM system failed at  5:28 p.m.  Pacific time on Tuesday, preventing new or amended notices from being distributed to pilots. The FAA resorted to a telephone hotline in an effort to keep departures on track overnight, but as daytime traffic picked up, the telephone backup system was overwhelmed. An outage can cause widespread disruption because all aircraft are required to route through the system. Air Force spokeswoman Ann Stefanek said U.S. military flights were not affected because the military has its own NOTAM system separate from the FAA system. Julia Macpherson was on a United flight from Sydney to Los Angeles on Wednesday when she learned of possible delays.  “As I was up in the air I got news from my friend who was also traveling overseas that there was a power outage,” said Macpherson, who was returning to Florida from Hobart, in Australia’s Tasmania state. Once she lands in L.A., she still has a connection in Denver on her flight to Jacksonville, Fla. She said there had been no announcements on the flight about the FAA issue.  Macpherson said she had already experienced a delay in her travels because her original flight from Melbourne to San Francisco was canceled and she rebooked a flight from Sydney to Los Angeles. European flights into the U.S. appeared to be largely unaffected. Irish carrier Aer Lingus said services to the U.S. continued, and Dublin Airport’s website showed that its flights to Los Angeles, Chicago, Boston and Newark were running on schedule.  “Aer Lingus plan to operate all transatlantic flights as scheduled today,” the carrier said in a prepared statement. “We will continue to monitor but we do not anticipate any disruption to our services arising from the technical issue in the United States.” The FAA disruption is the latest headache for travelers in the U.S., who faced flight cancellations over the holidays amid winter storms and a breakdown of staffing technology at Southwest Airlines. Travelers also dealt with long lines, lost baggage, and cancellations and delays over the summer as travel demand roared back from its pandemic lull. The FAA said that it would provide frequent updates as it made progress.