Unauthorized use of cellphones by Russian soldiers led to a deadly Ukrainian rocket attack on the facility where they were stationed, according to the Russian military, which raised the death toll from the weekend attack to 89. Gen. Lt. Sergei Sevryukov said in a statement late Tuesday that phone signals allowed Kyiv’s forces to “determine the coordinates of the location of military personnel” and launch a strike. Sevryukov said unspecified measures were being taken to “prevent similar tragic incidents in the future” and promised to punish officials responsible for the infraction. The attack, one of the deadliest on the Kremlin’s forces since the start of the war more than 10 months ago, occurred one minute into the new year, according to Sevryukov. Ukrainian forces fired six rockets from a U.S.-provided HIMARS multiple-launch system at a building “in the area of Makiivka” where the soldiers were stationed. Two rockets were downed, but four hit the building and detonated, causing the collapse of the structure. Details of the strike have trickled out in recent days. British intelligence officials said Wednesday that Moscow’s “unprofessional” military practices were likely partly to blame for the high casualty rate in Makiivka.   “Given the extent of the damage, there is a realistic possibility that ammunition was being stored near to troop accommodation, which detonated during the strike, creating secondary explosions,” the British Defense Ministry said in a Twitter post. The ministry said the building struck by Ukrainian missiles was little more than 7½ miles from the front line near Avdiivka, within “one of the most contested areas of the conflict.” Both Makiivka and Avdiivka, a key target of Russia’s grinding offensive in the eastern Donetsk region, lie on the outskirts of the region’s namesake capital. “The Russian military has a record of unsafe ammunition storage from well before the current war, but this incident highlights how unprofessional practices contribute to Russia’s high casualty rate,” the ministry said.  Meanwhile, the Kremlin-appointed leader of the Donetsk region, one of four that Moscow illegally annexed in September, on Wednesday praised the “courage and true heroism” of the dead Russian soldiers. Denis Pushilin said in a Telegram post that some of those killed tried to pull their comrades from the burning building. In Samara, in southwestern Russia, residents Tuesday gathered for an Orthodox service in memory of the dead. The service was followed by a minute’s silence, and flowers were laid at a Soviet-era war memorial, the state news agency RIA Novosti reported. Unconfirmed reports in Russian-language media said the victims were mobilized reservists from the region. The Russian Defense Ministry, in a rare admission of losses, initially said the strike killed 63 troops. But as emergency crews sifted through the rubble of the building, the death toll mounted. The regiment’s deputy commander was among the dead.  Other, unconfirmed reports put the death toll much higher. The Strategic Communications Directorate of Ukraine’s armed forces said Sunday that about 400 mobilized Russian soldiers were killed in a vocational school building in Makiivka and about 300 more were wounded. That claim couldn’t be independently verified. The Russian statement said the strike occurred “in the area of Makiivka” and didn’t mention the vocational school. Ukraine’s presidential office said Wednesday that at least five Ukrainian civilians were killed and 13 others were wounded in the country over the previous 24 hours, as Russian forces struck at nine regions in the country’s south and east.  Ukraine continues to seek Western help in its fight against the invasion. At a European Union-Ukraine summit Feb. 3, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is due to hold talks with EU Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen about continued European support. The summit will not include the EU’s 27 national heads of state and government, officials say. The summit location has not been revealed. German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock pledged to stay the course with Ukraine. “Just as the Ukrainians won’t let up in their fight for their freedom and the independence of their country, we won’t let even the slightest doubt arise about our determined support,” she said during a visit to Portugal on Wednesday. Ukraine’s top diplomat, meanwhile, said preparations for the transfer of the first U.S.-made Patriot missile systems to his country have already begun. Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told a news briefing that the surface-to-air guided missile system was a priority for Ukraine as it tries to fend off Russian aerial bombardments that have increased in recent months.  New weapons were also on the mind of Russian President Vladimir Putin, who took part via video link in a send-off ceremony for a frigate equipped with hypersonic missiles. Putin said the Zircon missiles that the Admiral Gorshkov frigate was carrying were a “unique weapon.” Russian officials claim that the Zircon system can defeat modern air-defense systems.