Democratic Rep. Ruben Gallego of Arizona, a liberal firebrand and prominent Latino lawmaker, announced Monday that he’ll challenge independent U.S. Sen. Kyrsten Sinema in 2024, becoming the first candidate to jump into the race and setting up a potential three-way contest. Gallego said he would fight for ordinary people who struggle to make ends meet and who have lost faith in politicians. He said he and Sinema both come from “modest to poor means” but have taken different paths in Congress. “I’m better for this job than Kyrsten Sinema because I haven’t forgotten where I came from,” Gallego told the Associated Press in an exclusive interview. “I think she clearly has forgotten where she came from. Instead of meeting with the people that need help, she meets with the people that are already powerful.” Gallego, a 43-year-old military veteran first elected to Congress in 2014, had made no secret of his interest in challenging Sinema, a longtime rival in Arizona politics who has been a roadblock and irritant to Democrats during President Biden’s term. She left the Democratic Party in December, registering as an independent and saying that she doesn’t “fit well into a traditional party system.” She has not said whether she plans to run for a second term. Although no Republican has entered the race, potential contenders include former gubernatorial candidate Kari Lake, former U.S. Senate candidate Blake Masters and Pinal County Sheriff Mark Lamb — all of whom are closely aligned with former President Trump. Karrin Taylor Robson, a housing developer who lost to Lake in last year’s primary, and former Gov. Doug Ducey are also possible contenders. A three-way race, coupled with the risk that Sinema and the eventual Democratic nominee would split the vote, would complicate the party’s already uphill battle to maintain control of the Senate in 2024. Democrats will be forced to defend 23 seats, including Sinema’s and two others held by independents, compared with just 10 seats for Republicans.  With tough and expensive races on the horizon, it remains unclear just how firmly the Democratic establishment and major donors will line up against Sinema, who has voted for most Democratic legislation even as she’s stood in the way of major priorities for the White House, congressional leaders and the progressive movement. “I’m assuming that they will be with us because we are going to run the winning campaign and because, at the end of the day, if you look at where Arizonans are going to be, they’re going to be with us and not with her,” Gallego told the AP.  A spokeswoman for Sinema, Hannah Hurley,  declined to comment on Gallego’s announcement. Gallego, an acerbic presence on social media who is quick to take down rivals from both parties, floated the idea of challenging Sinema to raise money last year and has for weeks been publicly assembling a team of advisors, hiring Democratic campaign veterans with experience working on tough swing-state Senate races in Arizona, Georgia and Pennsylvania. He announced his campaign with an online video that shows him talking to veterans at an American Legion post in Guadalupe, a Latino and Indigenous community just outside Phoenix. The son of immigrants from Mexico and Colombia, Gallego was raised in Chicago by a single mother after his father was imprisoned for dealing drugs. He enlisted in the U.S. Marine Reserves while he was on an involuntary break from Harvard University. He wrote in a 2021 book, “They Called Us Lucky,” that he was asked to leave Harvard during his sophomore year, when he partied too much, his grades slipped and he broke unspecified rules. He was later allowed to return. He fought in Iraq in 2005 in a unit that sustained heavy casualties, and he struggled with post-traumatic stress disorder after returning. He moved to Arizona to join his Harvard girlfriend, who had become active in Democratic politics in the state. The couple married in 2010 and divorced in 2017, a month before their son was born. His ex-wife, Kate Gallego, is now the mayor of Phoenix.  Gallego was elected in 2010 to the state Legislature, where Sinema also served during one of his two terms. In 2014, he won a bitter congressional primary, toppling a dynastic figure in the Phoenix Latino community. He represents an overwhelmingly Democratic district that includes the Black and Latino neighborhoods of south and west Phoenix. In Congress, he has focused on veterans and military issues.  Sinema has modeled her political approach on the maverick style of the late Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona, who alienated the grassroots of his party by sometimes crossing the aisle to work with Democrats. She’s become a fierce advocate of bipartisan compromise in an era when extreme partisanship has made it much more difficult. She has been at the center of many of the biggest congressional deals of Biden’s presidency, from a big bipartisan infrastructure package to a landmark bill to legally protect same-sex marriages. But she’s also become estranged from many Democrats, who blame her for voting down progressive priorities like a minimum wage hike and watering down others, such as Biden’s big social spending initiatives. Her support for maintaining the filibuster, a Senate rule requiring 60 of 100 votes to pass most legislation, has made her a pariah  among Democrats, who need Republican support to pass most bills despite controlling a majority of seats. The tension reached a head in 2021, when Democrats tried and failed to pass voting rights legislation.  Sinema doubled down on her position last week, telling attendees of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, that democracy didn’t collapse in the 2022 election despite her support for the filibuster.