Funeral services were held Friday for Riverside County Sheriff’s Deputy Isaiah Cordero, who was fatally shot Dec. 29 during a traffic stop. The procession began at the Acheson & Graham Garden of Prayer Mortuary in Riverside, according to the Sheriff’s Department. Services  were held at Harvest Christian Fellowship Church and streamed on the Riverside County Sheriff’s Facebook and YouTube pages, with thousands of viewers online and hundreds at the Mourners watched a slideshow of photos of Cordero from throughout his life, including one  in uniform with fellow officers. During the service, Cordero’s mother, Rebecca, spoke through tears. “Our son is gone. We hurt so much,” she said. “We are done with the statistics and virtue signaling,” she continued, after claiming that “criminals [are] cared for more than law enforcement officers.” The deputy’s mother called for the resignation of Superior Court Judge Cara D. Hutson, who delayed sentencing and reduced bail for the suspect in Cordero’s slaying on a previous felony conviction. Her comments received sustained applause. Cordero’s superior, Jurupa Valley Station Captain Michael Koehler, gave tearful remarks, and the deputy’s former colleague Deputy Kenneth Shinn relayed stories from their days together. In the crowd sat rows of law enforcement officials in uniform. Cordero, 32, was conducting a traffic stop in Jurupa Valley when William Shea McKay, 44, pulled out a gun and shot him as he approached, according to Riverside County Sheriff Chad Bianco. Witnesses called 911, and Cordero was transported to the Riverside Community Hospital, where he died from his injuries. McKay led police on a freeway chase that culminated in a shootout that resulted in the gunman’s death. Cordero joined the department in 2014 and worked as a motorcycle officer. He completed his motorcycle training in September and was assigned to the Jurupa Valley Station. Echoing the statement by Cordero’s mother, Riverside County Sheriff Chad Bianco said those not in uniform “must speak up and demand better from our politicians, our lawmakers and our judges.” 