Lisa Marie Presley will be commemorated Sunday during a public memorial service at Graceland, her iconic childhood home in Memphis, Tenn. The service for the “Storm & Grace” singer, who was the only child of rock great Elvis Presley and wife Priscilla Presley, has been set for 9 a.m. local time on the front lawn of her father’s famous Graceland Mansion and the public is invited to attend, Presley’s mother and her daughters Riley Keough and Harper and Finley Lockwood announced Monday. Presley, who died last week in Los Angeles County at 54, will be laid to rest at the Tennessee landmark where her father and several relatives are also buried. Her final resting place will be next to her son Benjamin Keough, who died by suicide in 2020, and reportedly across from her father’s grave. (Although Elvis Presley was initially interred at a nearby cemetery in Memphis, he was moved to the Graceland property months later as a precaution following an alleged plot to steal his coffin.) In lieu of flowers, the family encouraged mourners to donate to the Elvis Presley Charitable Foundation, which offers support to charitable organizations focusing on arts, education and children’s programs in the Memphis/Whitehaven area. As the only child of the King of Rock ‘n’ Roll, Presley helped oversee her father’s lucrative estate. After the rock legend died in 1977 when Lisa Marie was 9 years old, Presley became the sole inheritor of Graceland and the rest of the “Hound Dog” singer’s estate. Her inheritance was held in a trust until she turned 25. Though her ownership was diminished after several deals, it was still sizable: In addition to Graceland, Presley retained ownership of her father’s costumes, cars, awards and other possessions, according to the mansion’s website. The property, a tourist attraction that reports hosting 500,000 visitors annually on its 13-acre grounds, is in a trust that will now go to the benefit of her children.  “Nothing will change with the operation or management,” a Graceland spokesperson said last week. But legal experts who specialize in estates of high-net-worth individuals suspect things could get messy, mainly because the assets will be passed from one individual to multiple people who might have different agendas and who are now several generations removed from Elvis Presley himself, The Times reported over the weekend.  Times staff writers Brian Contreras and Anousha Sakoui contributed to this report.