Police arrested two music producers whom they discovered with a cache of assault weapons and ammunition inside a Studio City home, the Los Angeles Police Department said. The men, DeAvonte Kimble, 30, and Max Lord, 31, were taken into custody Wednesday after a barricade situation during which an LAPD SWAT team was called into action, according to police. When police entered the home and conducted a search, they found “several assault rifles, handguns, and 3 firearm suppressors, high-capacity magazines, assault rifle building parts/components, and thousands of rounds of ammunition,” the department said in a news release. Kimble was arrested on suspicion of illegal firearm possession in Chicago in 2018 alongside rapper G Herbo, according to the Chicago Sun-Times. He was listed as a producer on G Herbo’s album “25”. LAPD sources confirmed that Kimble is a Compton-based hip-hop producer for several rappers. Kimble was charged by LAPD with assault with a deadly weapon, though police did not disclose the circumstances surrounding the assault. He was also charged with being a parolee at large. He had his bail revoked and is being held at Van Nuys Jail. Lord was charged with possession of assault rifles and released on $35,000 bail. According to LAPD sources, Lord is a hip-hop producer and sound engineer for artists such as Cardi B, Future, Travis Scott and the late rapper Juice WRLD, whom the producer worked with for much of the rapper’s career. Lord has also faced threats from Juice WRLD’s entourage, according to sources. Lord told The Times on Friday that he was hosting Kimble — whom he called a “very smart man most of the time” — on the couch at his studio when the SWAT team arrived around 5:20 a.m. Wednesday. “There was a very heavy show of force. A high number of officers with a lot of equipment. Luckily, they didn’t break too much stuff — other than turn the house upside down.” Lord said he did not know about Kimble’s alleged assault with a deadly weapon.  “They got a warrant that included the residence [Kimble] was in. It’s my studio. Essentially, I got dragged into it because of the other warrant [for Kimble],” Lord said. When asked about the weapons and ammunition found at his studio, Lord declined to comment. “I wasn’t targeted. The detectives told me this would never happen to me,” he said.  Kimble could not immediately be reached for comment.