Marvel Studios’ “Black Panther: Wakanda Forever” and Sony Pictures’ “The Woman King” led the 54th NAACP Image Awards nominations Thursday, scoring 12 and nine nominations, respectively. In television, ABC’s Philadelphia school-set comedy “Abbott Elementary” led the small-screen and streaming nominations with nine nods, including entertainer of the year recognition for star and creator Quinta Brunson. “Wakanda Forever” and “The Woman King” are up against Netflix’s “A Jazzman’s Blues,” Apple’s Will Smith drama “Emancipation” and Universal’s Emmett Till biopic “Till.” “Abbott Elementary” will face off against FX’s “Atlanta,” HBO Max’s “Rap Sh!t” and fellow ABC comedies “black-ish” and the rebooted “The Wonder Years” for outstanding TV comedy. On the drama side, Peacock’s “Bel-Air,” Netflix’s “Bridgerton,” HBO Max’s “Euphoria,” Starz’s “P-Valley” and OWN’s “Queen Sugar” will vie for the drama prize. Along with Brunson, “Wakanda Forever” and “9-1-1” star Angela Bassett, musician Mary J. Blige, “The Woman King” star Viola Davis and “Euphoria” star Zendaya were nominated for entertainer of the year. In the music categories, Beyoncé and Kendrick Lamar tied for the most nominations with five nods apiece and will be going head-to-head in the album and music video/visual album categories. The NAACP Image Awards is an “annual celebration of Black excellence,” the organization said, and also recognizes work across news, literary publishing and podcasting. Voting is done by the public and runs through Feb. 10. Winners will be announced at a Feb. 25 ceremony at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium. The show will air live on the East Coast on BET and will be rebroadcast on the West Coast at 8 p.m. Pacific time. (The NAACP also will recognize winners in nontelevised Image Awards categories online between Feb. 20 and Feb. 24.) “This year’s nominees have conveyed a wide range of authentic stories and diverse experiences that have resonated with many in our community, and we’re proud to recognize their outstanding achievements and performances,” said Derrick Johnson, president and chief executive of the NAACP. “We take pride in recognizing the trailblazing achievements and artistry of this year’s esteemed nominees and celebrating the powerful legacy of the NAACP,” added Connie Orlando, BET’s executive vice president of specials, music programming and music strategy. “We look forward to bringing the Image Awards back to Pasadena in front of a live audience and delivering unforgettable moments that epitomize the brilliance of the Black community.”  Here are nominees in notable categories. Click here for the complete list of nominees. ENTERTAINER OF THE YEAR MOTION PICTURES  Outstanding motion picture Actor in a motion picture Actress in a motion picture Supporting actor in a motion picture Supporting actress in a motion picture Independent motion picture Animated motion picture TELEVISION + STREAMING Outstanding comedy series Actor in a comedy series Actress in a comedy series Supporting actor in a comedy series Supporting actress in a comedy series Outstanding drama series Actor in a drama series Actress in a drama series Supporting actor in a drama series Supporting actress in a drama series Television movie, limited series or dramatic special Actor in a television movie, limited series or dramatic special Actress in a television movie, limited-series or dramatic special   Talk series Reality program, reality competition or game show (series) Variety show (series or special) Animated series RECORDING New artist Male artist Female artist Album  DOCUMENTARY Documentary (film) Documentary (television) LITERARY Literary work — fiction Literary work — nonfiction