The  storm that brought destruction to parts of California on Monday continued to keep freeways and highways closed across the state. Here is a list of some key roads that remain closed as of Tuesday. Closed in many places, including Huntington Beach at Warner Avenue and several places in Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo and Monterey counties due to flooding.  Closed in both directions from Pacific Coast Highway to Viewridge Road in the Topanga area. Angeles Crest is closed in both directions two miles north of the 210 Freeway to Angeles Forest Highway. Closed in both directions from Civic Center Way to Piuma in L.A. County due to a rockslide and large boulder in the road. Closed in both directions in L.A. County from Pacific Coast Highway to Mulholland due to rockslides.   Closed in several places in Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo counties. The California Highway Patrol tweeted that the southbound 101 reopened in Santa Barbara through Ventura shortly before 2 p.m. The northbound lanes remained closed in Carpinteria and at Winchester near Goleta. Caltrans said it hoped to have the Gaviota stretch reopened by Tuesday evening. Closed north of Bishop due to snow. Closed at Highway 1 due to flooding. Closed in both directions from Stonegate Road to Reeves Road, between Santa Paula and Ojai. Closed at Highway 33 due to flooding and mud. Closed in both directions north of Ojai to the Ozena Fire Station.   Closed in both directions between Fillmore and Hopper Canyon due to flooding. Closed at Bear Gulch Road due to flooding. Closed in Santa Barbara County from the 192 to the 266. Closed in parts of Santa Barbara County. Westlake Boulevard in Ventura County is closed just south of Westlake Village from Carlisle Road to Portrero Road. Grimes Canyon Road is closed in both directions from Bardsdale Avenue to Shekell Road. The southbound connector to the 110 Freeway is closed due to mud, debris and trees. The northbound freeway is closed at Lankershim Boulevard in Sun Valley. Source: Caltrans   With more rain coming, here are some basic tips for driving in the rain from the pages of The Times. Look carefully  Continually scan the road to avoid debris and look out for disabled vehicles in reduced-visibility conditions. Slow down Driving at reduced speeds helps you prepare for sudden stops. Reduce your speed, particularly as you drive through puddles.  Allow extra room between cars. Your car needs two to three times more stopping distance on wet pavement. Slipping? Don’t slam on the brakes If you find yourself skidding on wet pavement, don’t slam on the brakes — apply light but firm pressure. Steer in the direction the car is sliding. For cars with anti-lock brakes, apply heavy, steady pressure, but do not pump the brakes.  Keep to the center Use the center lanes  — and don’t cross the yellow line. Water tends to collect in the outside lanes, which slope curbside. Pay attention  Driving in the rain requires more mental effort. Don’t eat. Don’t drink. Don’t use your cellphone. Don’t text. Don’t fumble with CDs. Don’t put on your makeup. And once it stops raining, continue to avoid all those activities while behind the wheel.