The fate of a devastated salt-mining town in eastern Ukraine hung in the balance Wednesday as Ukrainian forces held out against a furious Russian onslaught in what has become a bloody focal point of the almost 11-month-old war. Soledar was under heavy shelling by Russian forces using jets, mortars and rockets. A Ukrainian military officer near Soledar said the Russian assault was unrelenting. The Russians first send one or two waves of soldiers, many from the private Russian military contractor Wagner Group, who take heavy casualties as they probe Ukrainian defenses, the officer told the Associated Press. After those first assaults, when Ukrainian troops have taken some casualties and are exhausted, the Russians send a fresh wave of highly trained soldiers, paratroopers or special forces, said the Ukrainian officer, who insisted on anonymity for security reasons. Though unlikely to prove a turning point, Soledar’s fall to the Kremlin’s forces after months of Ukrainian defense would be a battlefield milestone and offer Russian troops a strategic springboard for their efforts to conquer other areas of Donetsk province that remain under Ukrainian control, such as the nearby city of Bakhmut. Donetsk and neighboring Luhansk province, which together make up the Donbas region bordering Russia, were Moscow’s main stated targets in invading Ukraine, but the fighting has stood mostly at a stalemate.  Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar denied Russian claims that Soledar had fallen, but she acknowledged that heavy fighting was ongoing. The spokesman for Ukraine’s Eastern Group of Forces, Serhiy Cherevaty, also dismissed the Russian claims.    Late Tuesday, Yevgeny Prigozhin, the head of the Wagner Group,  claimed in audio reports posted on his Russian social media platform that his forces had seized control of Soledar, though he also said that battles were continuing in a “cauldron” in the city’s center.   The Associated Press was unable to verify that claim. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Wednesday that Russian forces had “positive dynamics in advancing” on Soledar, but he stopped short of declaring its capture when asked about the claims that it had come under Russian control. “Let’s not rush and wait for official statements,” he said. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said this week that “everything is completely destroyed” in the area. “The whole land near Soledar is covered with the corpses of the occupiers and scars from the strikes,” Zelensky said. “This is what madness looks like.”  Soledar, known for salt mining and processing, lies in the Donetsk region at a strategic point six miles north of Bakhmut, which Russian forces are aiming to surround. Taking Bakhmut would disrupt Ukraine’s supply lines and open a route for Russian forces to press toward Kramatorsk and Sloviansk, key Ukrainian strongholds in Donetsk. Soledar’s fall would make “holding Bakhmut much more precarious for Ukraine,” Michael Kofman, the director of Russia Studies at the CAN nonprofit research organization in Arlington, Va., said Wednesday. The grinding war of attrition, with expected heavy casualties, may make Russia’s victory as costly as a defeat, however.  “I don’t think the outcome at Bakhmut is that significant compared to what it costs Russia to achieve it,” Kofman said in a tweet. The Wagner Group, which now reportedly includes a large contingent of convicts recruited in Russian prisons, has spearheaded the attack on Soledar and Bakhmut. Western intelligence has estimated that the Wagner Group accounts for up to a quarter of all Russian combatants in Ukraine. A success in Soledar and Bakhmut would help Prigozhin, who has openly criticized Russia’s military leadership, to increase his clout at the Kremlin. Russia illegally annexed Donetsk and three other Ukrainian provinces in September, but its troops have struggled to advance. After Ukrainian forces recaptured the southern city of Kherson in November, the battle heated up around Bakhmut. The Washington-based Institute for the Study of War says Russian forces are up against “concerted Ukrainian resistance” around Bakhmut.  “The reality of block-by-block control of terrain in Soledar is obfuscated by the dynamic nature of urban combat ... and Russian forces have largely struggled to make significant tactical gains in the Soledar area for months,” the think tank said. An exceptional feature of the fighting near Bakhmut is that some of it has taken place around entrances to disused salt mine tunnels that run for some 120 miles, according to intelligence reports.  Several front-line cities in eastern Ukraine’s Donetsk and Luhansk provinces have witnessed intense fighting in recent months. Russian President Vladimir Putin identified the provinces as a focus from the war’s outset;  Moscow-backed separatists have fought Ukrainian forces there since 2014. Russia’s grinding eastern offensive captured almost all of Luhansk during the summer. Donetsk escaped the same fate, and the Russian military subsequently poured manpower and resources around Bakhmut. On a different front, Zelensky on Wednesday visited the western city of Lviv and held a high-level meeting on the security situation near Ukraine’s border with Russian ally Belarus, Zelensky’s office said in a statement. Russia has stationed more than 10,000 of its soldiers in Belarus and conducts regular military drills in the country, which has a roughly 600-mile border with Ukraine. The Kremlin used Belarus as a staging ground to send troops and missiles into Ukraine when Russia invaded Feb. 24, 2022.  Concerns have risen in recent months about Moscow potentially pressuring Belarus into opening up a new front in Ukraine’s west, possibly to target supply routes for Western weapons and other overseas aid that have helped Kyiv’s forces sustain a defense and launch a counteroffensive. Zelensky said there were no immediate worries about Minsk joining the war but added, “We must be ready,” according to the statement. Meanwhile, Putin claimed Wednesday that Russia had successfully resisted Western pressure, especially sanctions, over its invasion of Ukraine and declared that the country had enough resources to beef up its military while continuing social programs and meeting other development targets.  “Nothing of what our enemies forecast has happened,” Putin said in a video call with top members of his Cabinet. “We will strengthen our defense capability and will undoubtedly solve all issues related to supplies to military units involved in the special military operation,” he said, using the Kremlin’s euphemism for the war. He said Russia had received 200 billion rubles (about $3 billion) in additional revenue from higher oil and gas prices caused by the war.