John Klingberg scored at 1:08 of overtime, Mason McTavish had his first career multi-goal game with two goals and two assists and the Ducks rallied for a 5-4 victory over the San Jose Sharks on Friday night. Troy Terry had a rush to the net and placed a perfect pass to Klingberg in front as he put it past Sharks goalie Kaapo Kahkonen for his fifth goal of the season. “I needed it. It’s always fun to score goals, so it felt good,” Klingberg said after the seventh OT goal of his nine-year career. Trevor Zegras and Ryan Strome also scored for the Ducks. Anthony Stolarz stopped 37 shots to improve his career record to 8-1 against the Sharks. McTavish has six points (three goals, three assists) in his last two games. He has 26 points on the season, which is second among NHL rookies. Seattle’s Matty Beniers leads with 28.  “It’s special, for sure. It’s pretty cool,” McTavish said. “Anytime you even score one, it’s really special and to be a difference-maker in a game is pretty cool.” San Jose’s Kevin Labanc and Timo Meier each had a goal and an assist, and Erik Karlsson extended his franchise-record point streak to 14 games. Matt Nieto and Steven Lorentz also scored for the Sharks, and Kahkonen finished with 24 saves. “I thought for a lot of the game we were outplaying them, outshooting them, and then just like many times this year, where we just kind of find a way to lose this game,” Meier said. “I don’t really know what to say, it’s obviously frustrating.” McTavish tied the score 4-4 with 6:47 left in the third period on a snap shot from the slot. He tied it 3-3 at 13:06 of the second period when he put the puck in an open net after Kahkonen was caught out of position. Kahkonen was expecting Jakob Silfverberg’s shot to roll around the boards, but it caromed off the corner and in front of the net.  McTavish, who turns 20 on Jan. 30, has 11 goals in his NHL career. It is also the third-most goals in Ducks history by a teenager. McTavish, the third overall pick in the 2021 NHL draft, had two goals in nine games last season before going back to the junior ranks. McTavish is also the first Ducks player under age 20 to record four points in a game since Stanislav Chistov in 2002. Ending a drought: Zegras got his first goal in 12 games on a wrist shot from the left faceoff circle off a pass from Klingberg at 6:38 of the first period to get Anaheim within 2-1. It was Zegras’ 11th of the season and second against the Sharks.  Back home: Nieto, a Long Beach native, gave the Sharks a 1-0 lead 38 seconds into the game off a rebound for his eighth goal of the season. Up next for the Ducks: vs. Boston Bruins at Honda Center on Sunday at 5:30 p.m. PST