The Baldwin Park-based In-N-Out Burger chain announced plans this week for its most eastward expansion to date, with plans to open restaurants and a corporate hub in Tennessee. “We are very excited to provide Tennesseans with our quality burgers, fries and shakes,” Lynsi Snyder, In-N-Out owner and president, said in a statement. “For many years, we’ve heard requests from our customers in Tennessee to consider opening locations near them, further east than we’ve ever been. ... We very much look forward to serving them in years to come, and becoming part of the wonderful communities in the Volunteer State.” The new fast-food restaurants in Tennessee are expected to first open in the Nashville area, though not until 2026, according to the family-owned company. The plans include an “eastern territory office” that will be headquartered in Franklin, Tenn., just outside of Nashville.  Tennessee Gov.  Bill Lee broke news about the burger chain’s expansion on Twitter on Tuesday, sharing his excitement about an “iconic brand” moving into his state — and getting to order In-N-Out’s famous Double-Double burger. “It means a lot of opportunity and a lot of jobs for a lot of Tennesseans,” Lee said. “Welcome, In-N-Out Burger, you’re going to love it here.” In-N-Out is set to celebrate its 75th anniversary in October, growing immensely from the state’s first “drive-thru” hamburger stand to California’s favorite fast-food restaurant, with 385 locations in the western U.S. Snyder is the only grandchild of Harry and Esther Snyder, who in 1948 opened that first restaurant, focused on fresh ingredients and friendly service. “I have no doubt that my grandparents, dad and uncle would be proud of this decision to grow our associate family and serve even more amazing customers beginning in Nashville and the surrounding areas,” Snyder said.  The announcement of a new eastern office had people clamoring about other potential further expansions, like into Florida or other East Coast states — but no other plans have been confirmed. The chain has amassed a cult-like following over the years, with loyal fans quick to debate anyone who questions the quality of the food.  In-N-Out currently has locations in California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, Texas, Oregon and Colorado.