The death toll in the Lunar New Year mass shooting in Monterey Park rose to 11 Monday, after one person who was injured in the massacre died at the hospital.  The first 10 victims were all in their 50s, 60s or 70s, according to the L.A. County coroner. Only two — My Nhan, 65, and Lilan Li, 63, — have been identified by name, pending notification of their families. No age or name was immediately shared for the latest victim.     Nine were injured in the shooting. A gunman opened fire inside the Star Ballroom Dance Studio in Monterey Park — a city at the heart of Los Angeles County’s Chinese community — killing 10 people and injuring 10 others. Soon after, the shooter entered a second dance studio in Alhambra but was disarmed and fled. A motive in the attack hasn’t yet been made clear, but the suspected gunman was found Sunday in a white van in Torrance, where officials said he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.  Officials with the L.A. County-USC Medical Center on Monday announced the 11th death linked to the shooting. The hospital had been caring for four of the people injured in the attack. “Unfortunately, despite our best efforts, we are saddened to share that one of the victims has succumbed to their extensive injuries,” said Jorge Orozco, chief executive of LAC+USC Medical Center. “We want to express our deepest sympathies to their families and loved ones.” He said the three other victims were still being treated at the hospital, one in serious condition. The other two are recovering, he said. The conditions of the six other injured victims was not immediately clear Monday.  In a statement released on Twitter, Nhan’s family said she had spent years going to the dance studio in Monterey Park on weekends. “It’s what she loved to do,” the statement read. “But unfairly, Saturday was her last dance.” Her family described her warm smile and contagious kindness. “We are starting the Lunar New Year broken. We never imagined her life would end so suddenly.”  Friends identified another of the victims as Ming Wei Ma. Dariusz Michalski, an instructor at Star Dance, had to stop to compose himself when speaking about the student he had taught for several years. His former student helped manage the studio and was affectionately known by all as Mr. Ma. “It was heartbreaking,” Michalski said. “We are just speechless and cannot find the words to describe how we feel right now.” Grace, a woman in her 50s, said that Ma was the DJ at the dance studio Saturday night, when the gunman entered. The song that was playing was “Light Rain in March,” she said. There were a dozen, maybe up to 20 people dancing. “At the time, I was frightened and hid under a table in the corner of the hall, so I didn’t see many things,” she said.  In a Facebook post, Lauren Woods, another dance instructor, called “Mr. Ma” the heart of the studio. She wrote, “Ma was everything at Star and we were always so connected with him.” When Ma would see her, she wrote, he’d say, “my teacher,” kiss her cheeks and say, “Love you! Love you!” “He was so adorable to me and I could tell he was the heart of Star Ballroom,” Woods said. “So many dancers, teachers and organizers were connected with Ma and I personally will miss him dearly.”  There were also 10 people injured in the shooting at Star Ballroom Dance Studio.