Hollywood loves a comeback, and that’s arguably what the Golden Globe Awards staged Tuesday night. After the last two years’ ceremonies were mired in controversy sparked by a Los Angeles Times investigation of the Hollywood Foreign Press Assn., the awards show returned to the Beverly Hilton — and to the airwaves — for a star-studded affair broadcast live on NBC. The Globes, now under new ownership, kicked off awards season with a freewheeling show that clocked in nearly at 3½ hours and was full of famous faces in the audience. From host Jerrod Carmichael’s blistering opening remarks to Jennifer Coolidge’s tearful acceptance speech, here are five standout moments from the Globes’ return to the spotlight.  Emmy-winning comic Jerrod Carmichael kicked off the 80th Golden Globes  addressing the elephant in the room — host organization Hollywood Foreign Press Assn.'s questionable ethics and previous lack of diversity among its members. “I’ll tell you why I’m here. I’m here ‘cause I’m Black,” the “Rothaniel” comic said during his opening monologue.  He caught his audience up on the HFPA drama, then explained how a $500,000 paycheck sweetened the deal and why he wasn’t sweating the gig too much. “I took this job assuming they hadn’t changed at all. I heard they got six new Black members,” he deadpanned. “Congrats to them. Whatever.”   “Everything Everywhere All at Once” star Michelle Yeoh is finally getting her flowers. After receiving the Golden Globe for actress in a motion picture — musical or comedy, Yeoh said she’s “not letting go of this.” “It’s been an amazing journey and incredible fight to be here today, but I think it’s been worth it,” she said.  During her big moment, Yeoh recalled the discrimination she first faced upon coming to Hollywood, and spoke about how the “opportunities start to get smaller” as she aged. Of course, that was until the Daniels — Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert — offered “the best gift” that was “Everything Everywhere All at Once.” She was sentimental, until she was nearly played off mid-speech. “Shut up, please,” she told pianist Chloe Flower. “I can beat you up. It’s that serious.”   “American Horror Story” and “Glee” creator Ryan Murphy received the  Carol Burnett Lifetime Achievement award and used his platform to celebrate a handful of actors who have performed in  his projects. He first redirected his spotlight to “Pose” star Michaela Jaé Rodriguez and encouraged the celebrities in attendance to applaud the actor a year after she made history during 2022’s non-televised show.  He also praised Billy Porter (and his barrier-breaking sense of style), Niecy Nash-Betts, Matt Bomer, Jeremy Pope, Jessica Lange and more.  Jennifer Coolidge’s acceptance speech Tuesday night should have come with a spoiler alert and some tissues for a teary Mike White.  Celebrated for her work as Tanya in “The White Lotus,” Coolidge said series creator White was among the people who gave her career a second wind. “Mike White, you have given me hope, you’ve given me a new beginning, even if this is the end because you did kill me off,” she joked, referencing the “White Lotus” Season 2 finale. “You make people want to live longer,” she added about her “White Lotus” collaborator.   Also receiving a lifetime achievement honor was Eddie Murphy, who explained his tried-and-true path to a successful career in Hollywood. “I want to let you know there is a definitive blueprint that you can follow to achieve success, prosperity, longevity and peace of mind,” he said. “It’s a blueprint, and I followed it my whole career.  “It’s very simple. Just do these three things: Pay your taxes. Mind your business,” he said, before shouting his final bit of advice: “And keep Will Smith’s wife’s name out your [expletive] mouth!”