Pope Francis urged Congo’s people to forgive those who have harmed them as he presided over a Mass on Wednesday before an estimated 1 million people in a country racked by decades of violence. Many of the faithful spent the night on the vast airfields of the Ndolo airport in the Congolese capital, Kinshasa, and passed the hours before Francis’ arrival singing, dancing and building anticipation for the first main event of the pontiff’s trip to Africa. Francis’ is the first by a pope to the country since St. John Paul II’s in 1985. The crowd cheered wildly when Francis began a loop around the airfields in his open-sided popemobile. Some people ran alongside or waved flags. Many of the women wore dresses and skirts made of pagne, a wax print fabric, featuring images of Francis or other religious symbols. “Today I understand the enthusiasm of my grandmother when Pope John Paul II came,” said Julie Mbuyi, a 45-year-old mother of two who was wearing a Francis-themed outfit. “She was so excited to see him, and the night before, she couldn’t close her eyes!” The crowd cheered again when the pope greeted them in Lingala, which is one of Congo’s four national languages and is widely spoken in Kinshasa. And they listened attentively as he urged them in his homily to open their hearts to forgiveness, citing the example of Christ, who forgave those who betrayed him. “He showed them his wounds because forgiveness is born from wounds,” Francis said. “It is born when our wounds do not leave scars of hatred, but become the means by which we make room for others and accept their weaknesses. Our weakness becomes an opportunity, and forgiveness becomes the path to peace.”  Referring to the decades of violence, especially in Congo’s east, that has forced millions to flee their homes, Francis stressed that forgiving doesn’t mean pretending that nothing bad has happened. But he said the act of forgiveness creates an “amnesty of the heart.” “What great good it does us to cleanse our hearts of anger and remorse, of every trace of resentment and hostility!” he said.  The morning Mass was Francis’ first big event in Congo after he arrived Tuesday. In his opening speech to government authorities, he condemned the centuries-long plundering of Africa’s mineral and natural wealth by foreign powers. Later Wednesday, Francis was to meet with victims of the fighting in Congo’s east, where rebel groups have intensified attacks over the past year as they seek to expand their territory. At the meeting, people who have suffered unspeakable atrocities are expected to tell their stories. Francis had originally planned to visit the eastern province of North Kivu but had to cancel the stop because of fighting that has forced some 5.7 million people to flee their homes, exacerbating a humanitarian crisis in Congo, where already some 26.4 million people face hunger, according to the World Food Program. “When we heard that Pope Francis was no longer coming to our province of North Kivu, my husband and I decided to come all the way to Kinshasa to see and hear him,” said Jeanne Kahota as she waited for the Mass to begin. She said she was old enough to remember John Paul’s visit, but wasn’t able to follow it closely. “That’s why we said to ourselves that this kind of appointment doesn’t happen every day. It’s exceptional, and we didn’t want to miss it again.”  Roughly half of Congo’s 105 million people are Roman Catholic, according to Vatican statistics. Fighting in eastern Congo, which has more than 120 armed groups, has simmered for years but spiked in late 2021 with the resurgence of the M23 group that had been largely dormant for nearly a decade. The rebels have captured swaths of land and are accused by the United Nations and rights groups of committing atrocities against civilians.  Francis on Tuesday condemned the fighting and planned to repeat his call for peace during his meeting with victims of the conflict. The victims were also expected to participate in a ceremony to forgive their assailants, according to Vatican organizers. The Vatican estimated that 1 million people were on hand for Francis’ Mass on Wednesday, citing local organizers. The airport’s fields have a capacity of 1.5 million people and were not full by the time the Mass began. Among the faithful was Clement Konde, who traveled from Kisantu, a town in the province of Central Kongo, more than 95 miles from Kinshasa. He planned to participate in all of Francis’ events this week before the pontiff heads to South Sudan for the second leg of his African journey.  “To my children and to the children who stayed in my city, I will bring them the message of the Holy Father, the message of peace and reconciliation,” Konde said.