BeyHive, this is not a drill. Beyoncé on Wednesday announced her forthcoming Renaissance world tour and posted the concert dates on her website. The singer will travel across Europe, the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States — including two stops in California. On Aug. 30, the “Break My Soul” hitmaker will play Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, followed by a Sept. 2 show at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood. The tour will kick off May 10 in Stockholm and conclude Sept. 27 in New Orleans. Fans can register for Ticketmaster’s Renaissance tour sale via Beyoncé's website by signing up for any of three registration groups with different deadlines and different cities — perhaps an attempt to streamline the ticket-buying process and prevent another Eras tour fiasco. Buyers are permitted to sign up for multiple registration groups. The California dates are split between two groups: The deadline to register for Inglewood is Thursday at 8:59 p.m. Pacific time, while the deadline to register for San Francisco is Feb. 9 at 8:59 p.m. Pacific time. Additionally, members of Beyoncé's official fan club are eligible to sign up for Ticketmaster’s BeyHive presale via the same registration groups and deadlines. More details and instructions are available on the Live Nation website. For non-BeyHive members, two other presale opportunities also exist: Anyone with a Citi credit card can access the Citi presale by entering their credit card number; and any Verizon customers with Verizon Up can apply for the company’s exclusive presale for select U.S. shows through its customer loyalty program.  Rumors of a Renaissance tour have been circulating since October, when two tickets to see Beyoncé perform “live from anywhere around the world” were auctioned off at her mother and stepfather’s Wearable Art Gala in L.A. The tickets reportedly sold for  $150,000. This marks Queen Bey’s first time hitting the road since she and husband Jay-Z co-headlined their On the Run II tour in 2018. Her first concert since then was last month at luxury hotel Atlantis the Royal in Dubai. The private show was part of a three-day event celebrating the opening of the resort on Dubai’s Palm Jumeirah island. Beyoncé unveiled her Renaissance tour dates several months after releasing her seventh studio album of the same name. In November, music from the critically acclaimed record received eight Grammy nominations, including a nod for album of the year. When the Recording Academy released this year’s nominations, Beyoncé and Jay-Z became the most nominated artists of all time with a total of 88 nods apiece. “Creating this album allowed me a place to dream and to find escape during a scary time for the world,” Beyoncé wrote on Instagram in June.  “It allowed me to feel free and adventurous in a time when little else was moving. My intention was to create a safe place, a place without judgment. A place to be free of perfectionism and overthinking. A place to scream, release, feel freedom. It was a beautiful journey of exploration. I hope you find joy in this music. I hope it inspires you to release the wiggle. Ha! And to feel as unique, strong, and sexy as you are.”