The Arctic air that descended on the Northeast on Saturday brought dangerously cold sub-zero temperatures and wind chills to the region, including a record-setting wind chill of minus 108 degrees Fahrenheit on the summit of Mt. Washington in New Hampshire. In addition to the U.S. record low wind chill, the Mount Washington Observatory at the peak of the Northeast’s highest mountain, famous for its extreme weather conditions, recorded a temperature of minus 47, tying an observatory record set in 1934. Across the rest of the region, wind chills — the combined effect of wind and cold air on exposed skin — dropped to minus 45 to minus 50 degrees, according to the National Weather Service. The current method used to measure wind chill has been used since 2001. “This is just kind of an Arctic intrusion,” said Stephen Baron, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Gray, Maine. “Sometimes in the winter the jet stream dips and the Arctic oscillation allows the cold air to come into our area for a day or two.” Friday’s high winds were blamed for the death of an infant in Southwick, Mass. The winds brought a tree branch down on a vehicle driven by a 23-year-old Winstead, Conn., woman, according to the Hampden district attorney’s office. The driver was taken to the hospital with serious injuries, but the infant died, authorities said. Most people heeded warnings to stay inside Saturday, but some people had little choice but to go out. Gin Koo, 36, braved the cold to take his Boston terrier, Bee, out for a necessary walk. “I can’t remember it being this cold, not since 2015,” said Koo, who was wearing three shirts and a down jacket, as well as a hat and a hood. Bee still shivered despite his doggie coat. “I wouldn’t go out if I didn’t have to.”  Paul Butler, 45, who has been homeless since he was evicted in December 2021, took shelter in South Station, the Boston transit hub that authorities kept open overnight so unhoused people had somewhere warm to sleep. “This is the coldest I ever, ever remember, and I worked the door at a bunch of clubs for 15 years,” said the former Marine, who carried two bags with extra clothes and blankets. Boston’s Pine Street Inn, the largest provider of homeless services in New England, ramped up outreach to those living on the streets, doubling the numbers of vehicles that could transport people to shelters and opening their lobby to provide extra space.  One person was transported to the hospital. “On a night like last night, the biggest concern is the people who have compromised judgment,” President and CEO Lyndia Downie said of people who have substance use disorder or mental illness. “On these cold nights, they are not thinking at 100% of their capacity. Those are the people we are most worried about.” According to the National Weather Service, several cities, including Boston; Providence, R.I.; Hartford, Conn.; Worcester, Mass.; Albany, N.Y.;  and Glens Falls, N.Y.; set or matched record low temperatures for the date. The extreme cold curtailed some traditional winter activities. Organizers of an annual ice castle attraction in North Woodstock, N.H., shortened the evening visitor schedule for Friday and Saturday nights. Erin Trotta of Massachusetts, who had already booked a visit on Saturday afternoon, still planned to go, but was taking extra steps to stay warm.  “We are prepared to take on the polar vortex ice castles.... Snow pants, thick winter coats, hand and foot warmers, face masks, the kind where only your eyes are exposed, and good gloves and winter boots. Plan to drink some hot cocoa to keep warm.” In New York’s Adirondack Mountains, Old Forge recorded a temperature early Saturday of minues 36 degrees. Temperatures plunged into the negative teens in dozens of other cities and towns, with wind chill making it feel even colder. Mackenzie Glasser, owner of Ozzie’s Coffee Bar in Old Forge, said frigid temperatures are just part of living in the Adirondacks.  “I even had customers for the first hour that I was open, and I wasn’t expecting that at 7 a.m. So I don’t think it’s keeping too many people away,” she said. The good news is that the cold air is expected to move out of much of the region by Sunday, when temperatures could rise to the 40s. “That’s quite a change,” the National Weather Service’s Baron said.   