Weeks after announcing the end of Panic! at the Disco, musician Brendon Urie is starting for another venture: fatherhood. The former Panic! frontman, 35, reportedly welcomed his first child with wife Sarah Urie, 35, earlier this week, TMZ reported Friday. Additional details about the baby, including its birthdate, sex and name were not revealed. “We’re told everyone is happy and healthy,” TMZ said. Representatives for Brendon Urie did not immediately respond to The Times’ request for confirmation Friday. News of the baby’s birth comes as little surprise considering Urie announced on Jan. 24 that he and his wife were expecting. In the same social media post, he revealed that pop-rock band Panic! at the Disco’s days have come to an end. “Sometimes a journey must come to an end for a new one to begin,” he wrote in a statement shared on the band’s Instagram page.   Urie said that the upcoming “adventure” of parenthood was going to be “both humbling and exciting.” He added that he would shift his focus from the band, which “will be no more,” to his growing family. “Thank you all for your immense support over the years,” he wrote to fans. “I’ve sat here trying to come up with the perfect way to say this and I truly can’t put into words how much it has meant to us.” Brendon Urie, who came out as pansexual in July 2018, married Sarah Urie (born Orzechowski) in April 2013.  Urie formed Panic! at the Disco in 2004 with childhood friends Ryan Ross on guitar, Brent Wilson on bass and Spencer Smith on drums. The group soon achieved mainstream success with its debut album, “A Fever You Can’t Sweat Out,” and mega-hit single “I Write Sins Not Tragedies.” Over the years, the original band members left Panic! at the Disco until only Urie remained. He has continued to perform under the moniker, essentially as a solo act, since 2015. Panic!'s other hits include “Nine in the Afternoon,” “Victorious,” “High Hopes” and “Death of a Bachelor.” Panic! at the Disco has several remaining shows in Europe throughout February and March. The final show will be at the United Kingdom’s AO Arena in Manchester on March 10.  Times staff writer Christi Carras contributed to this report.