Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken abruptly canceled a high-stakes diplomatic trip to China on Friday in response to what U.S. officials described as a Chinese spy balloon flying over parts of the U.S. Blinken had been scheduled to depart Friday night for Beijing as a follow-up to President Biden’s opening rapprochement with Chinese President Xi Jinping late last year. But the massive balloon’s presence in U.S. airspace, first revealed Thursday night by the Pentagon, “is unacceptable and irresponsible,” a senior State Department official said in announcing Blinken’s change of plans. U.S. officials called it a violation of national sovereignty and international law. At 60,000 feet, the balloon does not pose a hazard to people on the ground, Pentagon spokesman Brig. Gen. Pat Ryder said in a briefing when asked whether the object contained radioactive or other potentially toxic material. Shooting down the balloon “was an option,” Ryder said, and fighter jets were being prepared for such a mission. But for now, as the balloon travels over possibly populated parts of the country, the Pentagon has decided to hold off on bringing it down. “We will continue to monitor it and continue to review our options,” Ryder said. The balloon is enormous — reportedly the size of three buses — and equipped with surveillance machinery and other equipment that would potentially create a large debris field if shot down, officials said. U.S. officials said it was likely collecting data as it passed over sensitive U.S. military installations. But they said the information it could gather was no more detailed than what normal Chinese satellites already collect.  The balloon passed over a military base in Montana as recently as Thursday, Ryder said, then moved eastward. Montana is home to one of America’s three nuclear missile silo fields, at Malmstrom Air Force Base. Initially, U.S. officials said the balloon did not seem to be piloted, but Ryder said it now appears Chinese authorities are directing its flight path. The Chinese government said the balloon was merely a weather instrument that accidentally strayed into U.S. airspace. The Chinese foreign ministry said the vehicle had limited “self-steering” capabilities and “deviated far from its planned course” because of winds.  “The Chinese side regrets the unintended entry of the airship into U.S. airspace due to force majeure,” the ministry said in a statement. State Department officials scoffed at that explanation. “We are confident in our assessment,” a senior State Department official said, briefing reporters on condition of anonymity in keeping with government protocols. The official said Blinken’s trip would be rescheduled “when the conditions allow.” He did not detail those conditions.  Another State Department official said going to Beijing at this time would be counterproductive because it would be overshadowed by the spy balloon. The meeting had been aimed at easing fraught tensions between Beijing and Washington as they seek to find agreement on climate change and a handful of other issues. Blinken returned from the Middle East on Wednesday. That trip, to Israel, the West Bank and Egypt, went ahead despite the killing of seven Israeli Jews by a Palestinian gunman at a synagogue on the eve of Blinken’s arrival, and Israel’s killing of nine Palestinians in a raid on militants the day before.  