Gustavo Dudamel, the celebrated conductor and music and artistic director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, has announced that he will leave the L.A. Phil for the New York Philharmonic at the conclusion of his contract in 2026. The unexpected news came shortly after the Venezuelan-born conductor celebrated his 42nd birthday in Paris, where he currently serves as musical director of the Paris Opera. In a phone call, Dudamel told The Times that the decision was extremely complex and difficult, and that his heart is in Los Angeles. He said that he’s not leaving tomorrow, and with three seasons left at the L.A. Phil, his focus will remain here. In 2026 Dudamel will have been the L.A. Phil’s music director for 17 years. He was first appointed in 2009. Dudamel told the Times that he’ll turn 45 in 2026 and that he believes it will be a moment for a new challenge. “The philharmonic is a very different animal, a different situation and the challenge is very interesting,” Dudamel said, adding that although the move will make his life easier in terms of his proximity to Paris and his second home in Madrid, that’s not why he is seeking this change. Dudamel said it was his intention to break the news to the orchestra Tuesday during an early afternoon meeting — that he wanted to tell them personally because they are his family. He added that his relationship with the L.A. Phil will continue, and that he plans to return regularly.  Dudamel’s move is not only a loss for the orchestra, regarded as the most important in the United States, but also for the city of Los Angeles. The superstar became an emblem of the Latino community’s power and prominence, and he has been pivotal to Los Angeles’s rise as a cultural capital. Additionally, his extensive work with Youth Orchestra Los Angeles’ programs have been a game-changing force for young conductors in the region. “The Los Angeles Philharmonic congratulates Gustavo Dudamel on his appointment as Music & Artistic Director of the New York Philharmonic starting in the 2026/27 season, and the beginning of a remarkable new chapter for Gustavo and his family,” said Los Angeles Philharmonic CEO Chad Smith in a statement shared with the Times. “We are excited to continue working with Gustavo through our 2025/26 season, which will mark his 17th year with the LA Phil, and we will look forward to welcoming him back as a guest conductor for years to come.” “From our earliest days, the LA Phil has been a trailblazer, boldly embracing the new, welcoming the world’s greatest artists to our stages and redefining the role of an orchestra in our community,” Smith added. “The search for our next Music Director will be conducted with this same spirit as we define the future of our organization.”  Deborah Borda, the current president and CEO of the N.Y. Philharmonic, assumed that role after serving for 17 years at the L.A. Phil—including the beginning of Dudamel’s relationship with the organization. “My time with the LA Phil has been, and will continue to be, the most transformative period of my life. I have learned so much, grown so much, and together we have created something truly unique and beautiful - not only with this incredible orchestra, but in the community that we have built around ourselves, from Walt Disney Concert Hall to the Hollywood Bowl, to The Ford, and beyond,” Dudamel said in a statement. “We have groundbreaking projects planned for the seasons ahead, including the inaugural California Festival this Fall, and more that will be announced soon. I will always remain involved in YOLA, even as new people bring new vision and inspiration, and with our new Beckmen YOLA Center, we have ensured that the future generations will keep expanding that community far beyond our wildest dreams. Change always comes with a sense of loss, but I feel that we have only to gain in the years ahead, and it is my hope and my wish that I can continue to play a part in this amazing institution.”