The death toll in the massive earthquake that struck Turkey and Syria rose Wednesday to more than 9,500, making it the deadliest temblor in more than a decade. Thinly stretched rescue teams worked through the night pulling more bodies from the rubble of thousands of toppled buildings. Turkey’s disaster management agency said the country’s death toll had risen to 7,108. Including fatalities reported in neighboring Syria, the total number of confirmed deaths since Monday’s magnitude 7.8 earthquake is 9,638. Another 40,910 people have been injured. That makes it the deadliest temblor since a 2011 earthquake in Japan triggered a tsunami, killing nearly 20,000 people. Amid calls for the government to send more help to the disaster zone, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was to travel to the town of Pazarcik, the epicenter of the quake, and to the worst-hit province, Hatay, on Wednesday. Turkey now has some 60,000 aid workers in the quake-hit zone, but with the devastation so widespread, many victims are still waiting for help.  Nearly two days after the quake struck southeastern Turkey and northern Syria, rescuers pulled a 3-year-old boy, Arif Kaan, from beneath the rubble of a collapsed apartment building in Kahramanmaras, a city not far from the epicenter. With the boy’s lower body trapped under slabs of concrete and twisted rebar, emergency crews lay a blanket over his torso to protect him from below-freezing temperatures as they carefully cut the debris away from him, mindful of the possibility of triggering another collapse.  The boy’s father, Ertugrul Kisi, who himself had been rescued earlier, sobbed as his son was pulled free and loaded into an ambulance. “For now, the name of hope in Kahramanmaras is Arif Kaan,” a Turkish television reporter declared as the dramatic rescue was broadcast to the country. A few hours later, rescuers pulled 10-year-old Betul Edis from the rubble of her home in the city of Adiyaman. Amid applause from onlookers, her grandfather kissed her and spoke softly to her as she was loaded into an ambulance. But such stories were few two days after Monday’s predawn earthquake, which hit a huge area, with frigid temperatures and ongoing aftershocks complicating rescue efforts. Search teams from more than two dozen countries joined the Turkish emergency personnel, and aid pledges poured in.   In Syria, the shaking toppled thousands of buildings and heaped more misery on a region racked by the country’s 12-year civil war and refugee crisis. On Monday afternoon in a northwestern Syrian town, residents found a crying newborn still connected by the umbilical cord to her deceased mother. The baby was the only member of her family to survive a building collapse in the small town of Jinderis, relatives told the Associated Press.  Turkey is home to millions of refugees from the Syrian war. The affected area in Syria is divided between government-controlled territory and the country’s last opposition-held enclave, where millions rely on humanitarian aid. As many as 23 million people could be affected in the quake-hit region, according to Adelheid Marschang, a senior emergencies officer with the World Health Organization, who called it a “crisis on top of multiple crises.”  Many survivors in Turkey have had to sleep in cars, outside or in government shelters. “We don’t have a tent, we don’t have a heating stove, we don’t have anything. Our children are in bad shape. We are all getting wet under the rain and our kids are out in the cold,” Aysan Kurt, 27, said. “We did not die from hunger or the earthquake, but we will die freezing from the cold.” Erdogan said 13 million of the country’s 85 million people were affected, and he declared a state of emergency in 10 provinces. More than 8,000 people have been pulled from the debris in Turkey, and some 380,000 have taken refuge in government shelters or hotels, authorities said. The death toll in government-held areas of Syria has climbed to 1,250, with 2,054 injured, according to the Health Ministry. At least 1,280 people have died in the rebel-held northwest, according to volunteer first responders known as the White Helmets, with more than 2,600 injured. In Syria, aid efforts have been hampered by the ongoing war and the isolation of the rebel-held region along the border, which is surrounded by Russia-backed government forces. Syria itself is an international pariah under Western sanctions linked to the war.  The United Nations said it was “exploring all avenues” to get supplies to the rebel-held northwest. The region sits on top of major fault lines and is frequently shaken by earthquakes. Some 18,000 people were killed in similarly powerful earthquakes that hit northwest Turkey in 1999.