This week’s L.A. Goes Out  looks a bit different.  February is unofficially art fair season in Los Angeles so   today, I’ll be focusing on one of the most expansive  of them all: Frieze. The festival features  more than 120 galleries from 22 countries and incorporates collaborations that extend beyond the fair. Frieze is open to the public from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.  Feb. 17, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.  Feb. 18 and 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Feb. 19 (with an invite-only preview  Feb. 16). Art will sprawl across two buildings,  Santa Monica Airport and the Barker Hangar, with outdoor  installations paving the path between. This year’s Frieze Projects are “Now Playing,” a series of outdoor, site-specific works at the airport curated by the Art Production Fund, and “Against the Edge,” works across the Westside of Los Angeles at historic architectural sites curated by Jay Ezra Nayssan, the founder and director of Del Vaz Projects. Tickets to Frieze range from $10 to $202. Details can be found on the art fair’s website. As you can tell by now, there will be a lot of art. Instead of listing everything on display, I’m bringing you highlights and tips to make your experience a bit smoother.  I’m Steven Vargas, your L.A. Goes Out host, and let’s start with a mix of events to give you a taste of what’s to come at Frieze: 1. ‘Focus’Just like the fair itself,  this section — highlighting younger galleries and emerging artists — will be bigger than ever. Curated by Amanda Hunt with associate curator Sonya Tamaddon, “Focus” will  include work by Clifford Prince King with Stars, a photographer who portrays intimacy and care through a queer Black lens. The section also  boasts work  from Edgar Ramirez with Chris Sharp Gallery, which will showcase collage paintings that highlight Wilmington — an overlooked Los Angeles neighborhood. Other artists include Greg Breda, Kyoko Idetsu, Melissa Joseph, Sophie Wahlquist and Hana Ward. The section will take place in the Barker Hangar at Frieze. 2. ‘Huddle’ Simone Forti Frieze is debuting a partnership with the Museum of Contemporary Art with a presentation of Simone Forti’s “Huddle.” The MOCA exhibit documents  her nearly six-decade career as a choreographer and contemporary artist. “Huddle” is one of Forti’s “Dance Constructions” from the 1960s — three of which are part of the show at the downtown L.A.  art museum. In the “Dance Construction” piece at Frieze, performers huddle together, grasping onto each other by the legs and torso, as one by one, those in the huddle traverse over the tight-knit group. Performances take place at Frieze at 11:15 a.m. and  noon on Feb. 17 and  at 3:15  and 3:45 p.m. Feb. 18 in the outdoor area.  3. Jennifer West ‘Hologram Phantom Limbs’Art Production Fund’s “Now Playing” brings new life to elements of everyday life in L.A. with site-specific artwork. Jennifer West’s “Hologram Phantom Limbs” draws from L.A. historian Norman Klein’s idea of phantom limbs. Combining the ideology  and the city’s urban development with holograms made from lo-fi technology of 3-D advertising projectors, West contemplates what the city’s past may have looked like under the rubble. On top of the debris, you can see a haunting hologram of cats and a “phantom limb” of L.A.’s culture. 4. Stanya Kahn As part of Frieze’s annual R.U.in.ART commission, a California artist develops work for the Ruinart lounge at the festival. Stanya Kahn, a multidisciplinary artist based in San Francisco,  has been  selected this year. The result is a series of paintings featuring animals, ranging from an endangered ivory-billed woodpecker to Harambe, looking directly at the viewer while surrounded by a vibrant landscape, seemingly untouched by humankind. Khan’s work focuses on sustainability and biodiversity, so the animals looking back at you are a  plea for human accountability in preserving wildlife.  5. Maestro Dobel Tequila LoungeFrieze has a list of partner initiatives that will be providing  interactive and immersive experiences for patrons of the art festival. One of the partners, Maestro Dobel, will have an Artpothecary lounge dedicated to the Mexican Golden Age. So while you sip on a cocktail with the brand’s tequila, you’ll be surrounded by contemporary art brought to life by Maestro Dobel and Mexico City-based design project Clásicos Mexicanos. The style will pull from  original designs by pioneering architect Ricardo Legorreta and his Vallarta collection. To immerse you even more into the cultural experience, the cocktail menu will  evoke the Mexican Golden Age. In addition to the festivities at the Santa Monica Airport, art galleries across the city will be programming around Frieze with special events, openings and more. While there are plenty of possible galleries to  visit, Sprüth Magers offers the best way to ring in one of the most significant art weekends of the year: a free public reception. The gallery will welcome you with  libation and art by Anne Imhof from 4  to 7 p.m.  Feb. 15. “Emo”  marks Imhof’s first exhibition in L.A. and includes a labyrinthian installation, paintings, sculptures, drawings and video. For a more comprehensive roundup of exhibitions, concerts, screenings, festivals and other events, check out Matt Cooper’s Culture Guide. The mapped list is a go-to for those of you who make plans based on the commute, and it also can be filtered by type of event and by price. And if you’re still  making Valentine’s Day plans, Cooper also has a holiday roundup for the day of love covering two weekends of events. Frieze will showcase quite a bit of visual art that are on a schedule. Here are a couple of performances and activations that you’ll need to plan for in advance:  Alake Shilling, ‘Buggy Ball’Pulling from her childhood obsession with Lisa Frank  school and craft supplies, Alake Shilling creates colorful characters full of emotion on soccer balls for her “Buggy Ball” activation site at Frieze. She uses soccer to further embrace  one’s inner child. The activation taking place at the airport soccer field incorporates a collaboration with the Los Angeles Football Club, which will be leading soccer clinics during the fair. The activation takes place from 3  to 5 p.m.  Feb. 16 and 1  to 3 p.m.  Feb. 19. Details can be found on Frieze’s website. Autumn Breon, ‘Leisure Lives’ and ‘Swag Surf in the Water’Honoring Santa Monica’s Bay Street Beach and the Black spacial imaginary, Autumn Breon’s “Leisure Lives” monumentalizes the legacy of Black Californians and pioneers of the area  who provide rest and joy to the community. In addition to “Leisure Lives,” Breon will have an accompanying performance titled “Swag Surf in the Water.” The activation calls for viewers to claim and reclaim space for relaxation. The outdoor installation is part of the “Now Playing” program and the performance takes place at 2:30 p.m.  Feb. 16. It’ll include a procession by Breon and the Black Fist Brass Band from the Barker Hangar to the East site. More details can be found on Frieze’s website.   Don’t have a ticket, but still want to partake in Frieze festivities? Here are a few free happenings that are open to the public for you to get into the spirit of Frieze: Tony Cokes, ‘So to Speak’ at Beyond BaroqueAs part of “Against the Edge” programming, work by Tony Cokes will go up at the former Venice City Hall that is now home to Beyond Baroque. Since evolving into Beyond Baroque, the space has offered readings, film screenings and more. Cokes’ work honors the space’s legacy of Beat poetry and punk with musicality and rhythm. Walk-in hours to see the piece are 2 to 6 p.m.  Feb. 14 and 15 and  noon to 6 p.m.  Feb. 16 through Feb. 19. Details can be found on Del Vaz Projects’ website.  Julie Becker, ‘(W)hole’ at Del Vaz ProjectsThe Del Vaz Projects in Santa Monica, once Shirley Temple’s childhood home, will be presenting parts of late-Los Angeles artist Julie Becker’s “(W)hole.” The uncompleted work feels as if it  were never meant to be seen. Work in the series ranges from a projected piece to a playful collage. The exhibition will be accompanied by a  conversation with writers Chris Kraus and Ralph Coon at Del Vaz Projects at 10 a.m. Feb. 14. More details can be found on Del Vaz Projects’ website. Monday Evening Concerts ‘Action 3’ at the Merry-Go-Round Building at the Santa Monica PierThe Santa Monica Pier Merry-Go-Round will be getting a temporary artistic makeover. In 1955, Los Angeles curator Walter Hopps presented “Action” on the carousel by wrapping it in fabric and covering it with paintings by Sonia Gechtoff, Craig Kauffman, Jay DeFeo and Richard Diebenkorn. His work also incorporated sounds of jazz and John Cage. In an homage to Hopps, Jonathan Hepfer, artistic director of Monday Evening Concerts, will devis a music program at 7:30 p.m.  Feb. 16. The program will bring together notable visual artists and musicians to perform Cage’s “Speech.” While it is free, be sure to RSVP ahead of time on Frieze’s website. And for more information, check out Del Vaz Projects’ website.   If you’re new to Frieze, expect to be overtaken by the size and scope of the festival. Some might say it is the Disneyland of the art world. Not really, but I’m mentally preparing for it as if it  were Disneyland. Here are a few tips and reminders to prepare for your day at Frieze.  The last thing you want is for your growling stomach to turn people’s heads away from the  art. Luckily, there are quite a few spots at Frieze, and outside, where you can get food and drinks. Let’s start with what’s  inside: If you’d like to step away from the mayhem of the festival for a bite, here are a few close spots in the area: You don’t have to have a ticket to the main attraction to make an art extravaganza out of Frieze week. All across the city, there will be gallery openings and exhibitions to view, many of which are free. If you’d like to take a tour of L.A.’s new galleries, here are some you should visit during Frieze week:  Hauser & Wirth West HollywoodBest known for its DTLA space, Hauser & Wirth is opening a new location in West Hollywood, occupying a vintage automobile sales showroom. The space is opening  Feb. 15 with George Condo’s “People Are Strange.” The free exhibition pulls from the title of the Doors’ 1967 song and displays Condo’s abstract portraits that  convey contradictions. Details on the opening and exhibition can be found on Hauser & Wirth’s website. Tappan CollectiveThe collective of contemporary art collectors is opening its first gallery space. The group is known for collecting and showcasing emerging talent, encouraging a new generation of art buyers. The space  in Beverly Grove is set to open  Feb. 16 and display some of Tappan’s extensive art collection. Tappan worked with architect Marco Marraccini and interior designer Brandi Howe to create an immersive gallery space at 8200 Melrose Ave. Details on the Tappan Collective can be found on its website. Art in CommonCo-founded by L.A.-based curator Zoe Lukov and producer Abby Pucker, Art in Common is a newly formed nonprofit that will be mounting a noncommercial exhibition, “Boil, Toil + Trouble,”  on Feb. 15 in Melrose Hill. The exhibit will take place in an unused commercial space and feature  more than 50 contemporary artists who explore issues of water access and climate change through spirituality. This traveling exhibition is up until Feb. 26 and  includes panel discussions, workshops and a block party. The opening celebration takes place from 6 to 10 p.m.  Feb. 18 with music, dancing, food trucks and more. RSVP by emailing artincommon@resnicow.com. More details on the exhibition can be found on Art in Common’s website.  Santa Monica Art MuseumThe new Santa Monica Art Museum will host various programming for Frieze week, ranging from panel discussions on NFTs and immersive art to the opening of the museum’s first regional exhibition “Looking West” — which is followed by a reception and after-party. Details on the free events can be found on the museum’s website. I didn’t cover everything at Frieze. I mean, there are  more than 120 galleries ...  that would be one large newsletter. I hope these highlights gave you a place to start as you plan your Frieze experience. That’s all I’ve got for this week. Follow our feed of recommendations and itineraries on Instagram and Twitter, and if you have recs of your own, send them to steven.vargas@latimes.com.