There are 91 awards to be handed out at Sunday’s 65th Grammy Awards, but one in particular may determine how history views this year’s ceremony. The 10 artists nominated for the prestigious album of the year trophy include pop idol Harry Styles, Puerto Rican superstar Bad Bunny, hip-hop great Kendrick Lamar and Grammy-beloved vocal powerhouses Brandi Carlile and Adele. But all eyes, at Crypto.com Arena and at home, will be on Beyoncé, whose critically adored “Renaissance” LP generated a leading nine Grammy nominations this year and who, despite all her Grammy accolades — tied with her husband Jay-Z for most-ever Grammy nods (88); winner of 28 Grammys over her career — has never taken home album of the year. The Times has been liveblogging it all, from the first Premiere Ceremony award at brunch time to the evening’s last. Read on for live updates to find out what happens with album of the year and more:  7:28 p.m. The Grammys have often gotten hip-hop wrong, but it’s heartening to see the culture’s pioneers get their flowers like this at music’s biggest night. —K.D.  “LOOK AT ME NOW”!!! We spent so much time outside the classrooms trying to rap that verse like Busta Rhymes. No one ever quite lived up. —K.D. 7:20 p.m. Quote of the night, courtesy of LL Cool J: “I’m thrilled to announce that the winner of the Dr. Dre Global Impact Award is … Dr. Dre.” —M.W. I don’t think I’ve ever seen a black gramophone at the Grammys before… I kinda like it? —K.D. 7:18 p.m. Taylor Swift fans sounded the alarm on Ticketmaster for alleged anti-trust violations; tonight, Trevor Noah pleaded with the Swifties, “Bring down the price of eggs!” To that, Taylor Swift simply said, “There’s nothing they can’t accomplish.” You heard her, Swifties! —S.E. 7:05 p.m. And there it is: With a win for “Renaissance” in the dance/electronic music category, Beyoncé officially becomes the most-winning person in Grammy history. Sir Georg Solti, thank you for your service. Here’s what Beyoncé said as she accepted her record-setting Grammy: “I’m trying not to be too emotional. I’m trying to just receive this night. I wanna thank God for protecting me. Thank you, God. I’d like to thank my Uncle Jonny, who’s not here but he’s here in spirit. I’d like to thank my parents — my father, my mother, for loving me and pushing me. I’d like to thank my beautiful husband, my beautiful three children who are at home watching. I’d like to thank the queer community for your love and for inventing the genre. God bless you. Thank you so much to the Grammys.” —M.W. 6:57 p.m. Madonna, here to intro Sam Smith and Kim Petras, complains that the crowd is going to sleep before laying out the Tao of Madge: “If they call you shocking, scandalous, troublesome, problematic, provocative or dangerous, you are definitely on to something.” —M.W. Kim Petras and Sam Smith are serving up a devilish, pyrotechnical performance that evokes the same hedonistic bombast as Cardi B and Megan’s “WAP” from two years ago. The stakes are high in a country where the right to be gender-non-confirming is being contested in states like Florida, South Carolina and Tennessee; now we await the chorus of conservative talking heads exploding tomorrow. —S.E. 6:50 p.m. I spoke too soon! Every AOTY nominee in this panel discussion feature gets a super fan. —K.D. Oh man, Colyn the Adele fan — a.k.a. my man from the roundtable who says Adele doesn’t need a TikTok dance — is gonna get roasted at work tomorrow. —M.W. Obviously it’d never happen, but it’d be much more fun for the Grammys to sit down the actual album of the year nominees and have them argue about who deserves it most. —K.D. Cosigning this very chaotic plan! —M.W. 6:45 p.m. Kacey Musgraves led Sunday’s in memoriam segment with a stunning cover of “Coal Miner’s Daughter,” the autobiographical song by the late Loretta Lynn. To see Musgraves playing Lynn’s guitar is a poetic connection across physical and spiritual planes — Lynn dared to inspire (and anger) country fans with unsparing songs advocating for women’s rights. Musgraves, who wrote songs like “Follow Your Arrow” and “Rainbow” in support of the LGBTQ community, inherited that spirit of resistance and has continued to carry it into the 2020s. —S.E. It’s been a hard year for hip-hop, and Takeoff not being here still doesn’t sit right with me. What a tribute by Quavo. Still, I can’t help but to think of Offset in that moment — was holding out hope he’d be on that stage too. —K.D. In Memoriam felt brutal this year, not least because two of the departed were honored not by their admirers (which can be plenty moving) but by their surviving bandmates: Migos’ Quavo, who paid tribute to the late Takeoff, and Mick Fleetwood of Fleetwood Mac, who accompanied Sheryl Crow and Bonnie Raitt as they sang Christine McVie’s “Songbird.” —M.W. 6:33 p.m. Kendrick Lamar wins best rap album with “Mr. Morale & the Big Steppers.” There was no chance he wasn’t going to take this award, though Lamar — dressed in a track suit and tie, very regional manager at Champs — sounds almost surprised by the outcome. Thanking his family for “giving me the courage and the vulnerability to share these stories,” he says “Mr. Morale” was one of his toughest records to make and that he appreciates “the culture for allowing me to evolve to create a song like ‘Mother I Sober,’” in which he explores the generational trauma brought on by alcoholism and sexual abuse. —M.W. We knew Kendrick had to win, but I truly felt Cardi B on that “I’m scared” before she opened the envelope. —K.D. 6:24 p.m. Harry Styles is sounding a bit pitchy and looking a bit … glum? I’ve seen Harry live maybe 10 times, and in every one of them his charisma felt like something you wished you could buy with a beer chaser at the bar. But tonight he seems sad! — M.W. 6:18 p.m. Beyoncé is in the house. —M.W. She showed up! Applause in the press room. —K.D.  6:14 p.m. This is the first time the Recording Academy has broadcast the Latin “música urbana” category during the main show — probably only because Bad Bunny won it! They did the same in 2021 for the Latin pop album category, which he also won. The música urbana category was newly established this year to honor Latin hip-hop, reggaetón, trap and all its variants. It’s been a wild ride for Benito, who began as a fringe artist, a Soundcloud trap star, and is now the top ambassador for contemporary Latin music worldwide. “I made this album with love and passion,” he said in English. “When you do things with love and passion, everything is easier.” He switched to Spanish to thank his collaborators — and to dedicate the album to “Puerto Rico, the capital of reggaetón,” vowing to continue “taking the genre to the next level.” —S.E. 6:08 p.m. Surprised Lizzo did a deeply churchy take on “Special” instead of “About Damn Time,” which is up for record and song of the year? You might’ve forgotten that she did “About Damn Time” on last year’s Grammys. —M.W. 6:00 p.m. Pop duo/group performance goes to Sam Smith and Kim Petras’ “Unholy,” a gloriously dumb club track whose win makes Smith the first nonbinary person and Petras the first openly trans person to take home a Grammy. In her acceptance speech, Petras thanks the groundbreaking trans musician Sophie, who died in 2021 at age 34, as well as Madonna and Petras’ mother. “I grew up next to a highway in nowhere in Germany, and my mother believed me that I was a girl,” Petras says. “And I wouldn’t be here without her support.” —M.W. Love to see solidarity from pop stars like Taylor Swift, Shania Twain, Anitta, Camila Cabello, who stood up and cheered on two queer artists as they made history. —S.E. 5:52 p.m. Chris Stapleton is exactly (the only?) bearded white guy you want to crash a Motown tribute. Dude could do this every year for the rest of his life — and the Grammys will probably make that happen. —M.W. 5:47 p.m. The four kids milly rocking during a Motown tribute is the generational crossover I didn’t know I needed. —K.D. Intro’d by Billy Crystal as “the ninth wonder of the world,” Stevie Wonder is leading the Grammys’ tribute to Smokey Robinson, who with Motown Records founder Berry Gordy was honored on Friday night as MusiCares Persons of the Year (where Stevie excellently reggae-fied “The Tears of a Clown”). This take on the Temptations’ “The Way You Do the Things You Do” is fine! Oh, but wait — here comes Smokey himself in a sharp blue suit to reclaim “Tears of a Clown” for himself. —M.W. 5:42 p.m. Shania Twain… Canadian queen of pop country, master of disguise. —S.E. Twain’s category, country album, goes to Willie Nelson for “A Beautiful Time”; earlier, Willie won the country performance award for “Live Forever.” Nobody’s allowed to be mad about this. —M.W. 5:35 p.m. Best R&B song goes to Beyoncé’s “Cuff It” — which she didn’t quite make it to Crypto.com Arena to accept. Trevor Noah blames L.A. traffic and assures us she’s on her way. Awkward! But never a bad thing to see Nile Rodgers, who played on the record and is credited as a songwriter, as he accepts alongside Beyoncé’s longtime sideman The-Dream. —M.W. Maybe she turned around to head home after Jay-Z lost two Grammys at the Premiere Ceremony. —K.D. With that R&B song win, seems safe to say that Beyoncé will indeed set the new most-Grammys-ever record tonight, right? Album, song and record are definitely up in the air, but dance/electronic music album is still left to be handed out, and Bey already won dance/electronic recording. —M.W. 5:29 p.m. Not sure what to make of this panel of regular folks discussing the nominees for album of the year. On one hand, this woman professing her love for Beyoncé is very endearing! On the other, feels pretty filler-ish for music’s most prestigious awards show? Like, did someone bail on a planned performance on Thursday? But maybe that’s just the endangered cultural commentator in me talking. —M.W. Even weirder to highlight only three artists! I’d feel a way if I was Adele. —K.D. Are any of these fans getting ahead of the Renaissance tour waitlist on Ticketmaster right now? —S.E. Haha yes BIG Verified Fan energy. —M.W. 5:23 p.m. Harry Styles takes best pop vocal album for “Harry’s House,” the recording of which he says was “the greatest joy of my life.” Not a surprise win, by any means, though I’ll admit I’d been fearing an ABBA upset. —M.W. 5:16 p.m. Latino superstar and cultural icon Bad Bunny opened the ceremonies on Sunday night with a Caribbean one-two-punch of a Grammys performance. Backed by a folk dance group from his native Puerto Rico, he entered the room to the rumble of bomba percussions, kicking off his track from Grammy-nominated album “Un Verano Sin Ti,” a fight song titled “El Apagón,” or “The Blackout.” (That word that got bleeped out? That would be “cabrón,” which is a slang term that roughly translates to “badass.” He then regaled the crowd — and even got Taylor Swift out of her seat to dance! — with his explosive mambo track, “Despues de la Playa.” —S.E. Worth noting that the Grammys’ first two performers have been a Puerto Rican superstar who sings in Spanish and, with Brandi Carlile, an openly gay woman who was introduced by her wife and two children. —M.W. 5:14 p.m. Trevor Noah in his monologue teases Beyoncé’s proximity to setting the record for most Grammys ever — which he probably wouldn’t do if CBS didn’t know a televised payoff was in store? — M.W. 5:09 p.m. Here in the press room, Premiere Ceremony winners were still filtering in to answer questions, but at least half the room was staring at Bad Bunny’s performance on the TVs (with no sound!). —K.D. 5:04 p.m. Bad Bunny is opening the show in a killer pair of dad jeans. Did not see the folks at CBS making this choice! Happy to be surprised! A partial list of the celebrities seen boogieing to Bad Bunny’s performance: Taylor Swift, Jack Harlow and 93-year-old Berry Gordy. — M.W. 4:42 p.m. The pre-tel is done, the red carpet is closed and now we’re headed toward tonight’s main event. As the math stands, Beyoncé is still in the running to set a new record for the most Grammys ever won. After taking two awards and losing two awards in the Premiere Ceremony, the singer has five remaining nominations. If she wins one of them, she ties classical conductor Georg Solti’s record 31 wins; if she wins two, she’s the new GOAT. — M.W. 4:27 p.m. On the red carpet, Smokey Robinson is explaining the title of his upcoming album — it’s called “Gasms,” people — to Laverne Cox. And if you assumed it was strictly a sexual reference, think again. According to Smokey, a “gasm” describes “any good feeling you might have.” Noted! — Mikael Wood 4:01 p.m. Closing out the Premiere Ceremony, Tobias Jesso Jr. was named the first-ever songwriter of the year, while Jack Antonoff received the producer of the year award. Jesso’s banner year included work with Omar Apollo, Marcus Mumford and Harry Styles, leading to his first-ever Grammy victory, and raising eyebrows that this could bode poorly later in the evening for Beyoncé, whose frequent collaborator, The-Dream, Jesso, Jr. defeated. Antonoff, meanwhile, has now won producer of the year two times in a row. — K.D. 3:52 p.m. Dave Chappelle just won his fourth comedy album Grammy for his controversial standup special “The Closer,” which prompted protests and employee walkouts at streamer Netflix due to transphobic comments made by Chappelle. — K.D. 3:49 p.m. Taylor Swift may not garnered an Oscar nomination for “All Too Well: The Short Film,” but she does now have a Grammy, topping Adele, Beyoncé, BTS, Kendrick Lamar, Harry Styles and Doja Cat in the very competitive music video category. Swift is nominated for four Grammys this year, including song of the year. — C.M. 3:40 p.m. Bonnie Raitt’s “Made Up Mind” just won for Americana performance, while her song “Just Like That” won for American roots. She’s now won 12 Grammys, and could leave with more tonight — “Just Like That” is also up for song of the year. Moments later, Brandi Carlile took home her third Grammy of the afternoon, winning in the Americana album category for “In These Silent Days.” “Bonnie Raitt is my hero,” Carlile exclaimed from the podium during her acceptance speech. — K.D. 2:33 p.m. Panamanian salsa legend Rubén Blades and Brazilian pop group Boca Livre have won the honors for Latin pop album, for their joint LP “Pasieros.” Boca Livre is the first Brazilian act to win in this category since Roberto Carlos in 1989. — S.E. 2:30 p.m. Spanish singer Rosalía has won the Grammy for Latin rock or alternative album, for her acclaimed “Motomami.” The LP was also named album of the year at the Latin Grammys. The Grammy for regional Mexican music album (including Tejano) went to Natalia Lafourcade, for “Un Canto por México, El Musical.” Lafourcade also won the category in 2021, for her “Un Canto por México Vol. 1.” — Suzy Exposito 2:28 p.m. Willie Nelson, 89 years old and counting, won his 11th Grammy on Sunday, taking home best country solo performance for “Live Forever.” He beat out Zach Bryan (controversially, Bryan’s only Grammy nom this year), Miranda Lambert, Maren Morris and Kelsea Ballerini. Nelson will turn 90 in L.A. on April 29, when his friends and peers will celebrate his legendary career and songbook with the first of two nights of super-baked tribute at the Hollywood Bowl. — C.M. 2:05 p.m. The R&B categories welcomed winners new and old to their ranks. Muni Long, contender in the best new artist category, won her first Grammy for R&B performance, for her breakthrough hit “Hrs & Hrs.” For the third time, Beyoncé has won the Grammy for traditional R&B performance, for the sensual “Renaissance” cut ”Plastic Off the Sofa.” The song was co-written and produced with Syd, lead singer and songwriter of L.A. band the Internet; additional writers include R&B singer Sabrina Claudio, Nick Green and Patrick Paige II. And Steve Lacy’s “Gemini Rights” wins the Grammy for progressive R&B album. Its lead single, “Bad Habit,” ascended to the top of the Billboard 100, marking the native Angeleno’s first No. 1 hit. — S.E. 2:03 p.m. Future’s “Wait for U,” which features Drake and Tems, just won for melodic rap performance. The song beat out contenders from Kendrick Lamar, Jack Harlow and Latto, along with DJ Khaled’s “Beautiful,” which features Future. It’s Future’s second Grammy win and the first for Tems, the Nigerian singer who’s also featured on Beyoncé’s “Renaissance.” — K.D. 1:56 p.m. U.K. duo Wet Leg beat out Arctic Monkeys, Big Thief, Florence + the Machine and the Yeah Yeah Yeahs to win alternative music performance, for their delightful hit “Chaise Lounge.” “What are we doing here? I don’t know, but here we are,” they said bashfully while accepting the trophy. They then returned to the podium moments later to accept the alternative music album award, for their self–titled debut. — C.M. 1:51 p.m. Kendrick Lamar just took home two Grammys for “The Heart Part 5,” winning for rap song and rap performance. The song saw the Compton-born rapper speaking from the perspectives of various Black superstars who sparked controversy in recent years, including Will Smith, Kanye West and Jussie Smollett. It’s his second straight win in the rap performance category, following last year’s “Family Ties” with Baby Keem. Lamar is up for six more Grammys tonight, and is a strong bet to win rap album. — Kenan Draughorne 1:48 p.m. Brandi Carlile, throwing up devil’s horns on her way to the podium, beat out Ozzy Osbourne, Turnstile, Bryan Adams, Idles, the Black Keys and Beck to win the rock performance Grammy. Carlile has seven Grammy nominations, including record and album of the year. Minutes later, Osbourne’s “Patient Number 9” took home best rock album, while Carlile’s “Broken Horses” won for best rock song. — Craig Marks 1:37 p.m. Michael Bublé took home his fifth career Grammy, winning for traditional pop vocal album for “Higher,” his 11th album, featuring collaborations with Paul McCartney and Willie Nelson. Bublé has earned 12 career Grammy nominations, and beat out Kelly Clarkson, Norah Jones, Pentatonix and Diana Ross for the win. — A.B. 1:04 p.m. Beyoncé just won the first of what should be many Grammy awards today, for dance/electronic recording for “Break My Soul,” the lead single from her sprawling ode to Black queer club culture, “Renaissance.” She joins Donna Summer, Janet Jackson and Rihanna as Black women to win this award. Beyoncé leads this year’s field with nine nominations. — A.B. 12:30 p.m. Good afternoon, music fans! Whether you’re just waking up from the Clive Davis pre-Grammy gala or you’re still in the blocks-long line for the Roots’ Grammy Jam at the El Rey, we’re glad to have you following our coverage of the 65th Grammy Awards. This year features the most star-packed lineup in recent memory across the top categories, with landmark albums from Beyoncé, Adele, Bad Bunny, Harry Styles and more in contention for top prizes. But first, the Premiere Ceremony will honor winners from dozens of genre and technical categories. We’ll cover some of the highlights and important wins throughout the afternoon until the main show starts at 5 p.m. Pacific time. — August Brown