Ukraine on Tuesday renewed its appeal to Western countries for fighter jets to help frustrate Moscow’s invasion, as senior defense officials from the United States and its NATO allies said the war with Russia was approaching a critical stage. With the war set to enter its second year at the end of next week, the Ukraine contact group met at NATO headquarters in Brussels, and Kyiv made its needs clear. Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov, when asked what military aid his country is seeking now, showed reporters an image of a fighter jet.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky pushed hard for combat planes last week when he visited London, Paris and Brussels on just his second foreign trip since Russia invaded Feb. 24, 2022. That plea came days after Western allies pledged to provide Kyiv with tanks.  Moscow’s forces have been pressing in the east of Ukraine while bolstering their defensive lines in the south. The war has been largely static during the winter months, though both sides are expected to launch offensives when the weather improves. Russian President Vladimir Putin was hoping that Western support for Kyiv would fizzle out, U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd J. Austin III told the meeting.  But he said the contact group would “help Ukraine hold an advance during the spring counteroffensive” and would keep planning for Kyiv’s long-term needs. “Today’s meeting comes at a critical time,” Austin said. “The Kremlin is still betting that it can wait us out.”  NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, asked when he expects Russia’s so-called spring offensive to begin, told reporters in Brussels that “the reality is that we have seen the start already. “For me, this just highlights the importance of timing. It’s urgent to provide Ukraine with more weapons,” he added. Norwegian Defense Minister Bjorn Arild Gram, announcing that his country would provide eight Leopard 2 tanks and support vehicles to Ukraine, added: “The situation in Ukraine is approaching a critical phase, and they are dependent on rapid and comprehensive Western support.” The possibility of sending combat aircraft to Ukraine is still being discussed. The United States has said no to sending fighter jets for Ukraine, but Britain is assessing the possibility, and, on Tuesday, Dutch Defense Minister Kajsa Ollongren said providing jets “has to be part of the consideration.” Another issue occupying the minds of NATO allies  is how to keep up a steady supply of ammunition to Ukraine without depleting their own stockpiles.  According to some estimates, Ukraine is firing up to 7,000 artillery shells each day, around a third of the number that Russia is using.  Stoltenberg warned Monday that Ukraine is using up ammunition much faster than its allies can supply it.  German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said that finding ammunition and air defenses is “much more important at the moment than the discussion about fighter jets.” Pistorius told reporters that getting pilots up to speed on new aircraft and “training just to fly them takes several months, never mind teaching the abilities needed to deploy the weapons systems.” He said Ukraine’s partners “should focus on what is now at center stage, particularly in view of a Russian offensive that is apparently taking place.”  He said Germany has signed a deal to produce ammunition for self-propelled anti-aircraft guns that it provided to Ukraine, after Kyiv ran into problems finding munitions elsewhere. That ammunition is crucial for Kyiv to counter Russian attacks, especially on Ukraine’s power infrastructure, which are aimed at disrupting heating and drinking water supply. However, the Russians appear short on resources for any major offensive at the moment, the British Ministry of Defense said Tuesday.  “Overall, the current operational picture suggests that Russian forces are being given orders to advance in most sectors, but that they have not massed sufficient offensive combat power on any one axis to achieve a decisive effect,” the ministry said. Stoltenberg said that NATO sees “no sign whatsoever that President Putin is preparing for peace” and that arming Ukraine more quickly could save lives by bringing a quicker end to the conflict.   In Ukraine, the president’s office said Tuesday that Russian shelling killed at least three civilians and wounded another eight over the previous 24 hours as fighting continued in the south and east. Russian forces shelled 17 towns and villages in the Donetsk region, Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko said. “The Russians are destroying everything in their path,” he said. Ukrainian officials also reported intense shelling and airstrikes in Luhansk province, while in the south Russian forces shelled the city of Kherson 13 times over 24 hours, destroying a railway and residential buildings.